[1] Ranking the 2026 Hugo nominees plus the other best Sci-Fi and Fantasy Books of the year! — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKzFRThxqVw

Hello everybody. I'm Cody Troyer. And I'm Brent Gayford. And we are the Hugo. This time in our 100th episode, uh we are fittingly talking about the Hugo Awards of 2026, the nominees where we who we think should win. And beyond that, really just the best books of the year, the best books of last year. So we're going to talk about all the Hugo nominees and then all the books that were great and some of them are significantly better than some of the nominees that were not nominated and should have been. So really this is the best books of the year episode, Hugo Awards and Hugo Knots Awards. Um and and next time we're going to talk about Flowers for Alurnon by Daniel Keys, the classic novel and what kind of its influence. Yeah, I haven't cried recently. So time for the reread. Yeah. Um okay, should we just get into it? Yeah, for sure. Um what's our number six? Yeah, the so there are six books nominated for the Hugo this year. We are going to do these in our rank order. So from worst to best in our opinion. So yeah, number six is uh the death of the author by Nendi Okoraphor. And um this is a book. It is a science fiction book. It's about a uh woman who was paralyzed as an adolescent and is now wheelchair bound. She's a science fiction writer. Um her she is her family is from Nigeria but she's born in America. Um and in the story there's she is writing a story which is also a science fiction story about um uh it's after humanity has gone extinct basically and there's robots and AI living on Earth. Um and unfortunately just neither story so there's really two stories here. Neither one has a compelling plot. Um it's it's very autobiographical uh about the author. She's also a paralyzed, you know, science fiction writer um who's Nigerian American. Um just didn't hit for you, right? I mean, this was on our Nebula list, too. Yeah, there's some there was some interesting scenes and things that happened, but it just didn't feel like it strung together into a narrative. I think maybe it was like slightly too autobiographical, like our lives kind of aren't stories. Oh, yeah. I see. Like not as not enough narrative structure. Yes. Yes. Exactly. Um um and it's it did win the Locust award. Yeah, it won the Locust award. I was confused. That's confusing. Um uh anyway. Yeah. So that's number six. Well, I don't we don't need to dwell too much here. Maybe there's some people out there who are going to love this one. I hope you do. Wasn't for us. Uh what's next? For sure. Oh, what's next is Yeah, you read also The Raven Scholar by uh Antonio Hodgson. So tell tell us about it. Yeah. So, The Raven Scholar, uh, this is a fantasy novel, um, set in a world where there are eight gods, and each god has a monastery where the best and the brightest go and learn to act like that gods. Just like a fox monastery for the tricksters and spies and assassins, and there's a raven monastery for the nerds and the scribes. They have real jobs, not just being nerds. Um, uh, we're nerds here. That's not Okay. Okay. Uh, I'm [laughter] off track. There's a tiger monastery for for for dicks basically. It seems like like rich dicks go to the tiger monastery. Anyway, okay. So, we've got classes of people and we're going to have a competition to see who can be the emperor. I was just really there's a lot of really long court scenes and they were really boring. The first half of the book I was deeply deeply deeply not liking it and not liking reading it. The second half got a lot more interesting and then the book ended. It's not a complete story. This is book one of a series. The narrative is not at all complete. So, I actually kind of liked the second half, but I just think books that should be nominated for awards should sort of like stand on their own. You shouldn't have to read a second book in order for a story to be complete. So, anyway, yeah, I really didn't like the first half. The second half is way more fun. But yeah, that's an absolutely hot take. You don't think that books that are in a series should be nominated for awards? No, I think it's okay if it's in a series, but it needs to be a complete story inside itself. Um, like it can't be like it can't be like to be continued dot dot dot next week on. It has to be feel right to me. I'm still not sure I agree with that. I mean, I I feel like you should be able to dominate books in series, but I didn't I didn't read this one. This was your one. So, maybe you're you're saying it sounds like it was less complete than most book ones in a series end up being. Yes, that is what I was saying about. Yeah. And by the end, I was actually sort of interested in the plot and wanted to see what would keep happening. I was really, really, really annoyed that no, nothing got answered really. I see what you mean. Yeah. Plus, there's a lot of stuff that really didn't make any sense. Anyway, yeah. So, one thing you learn one thing you learn when you're doing something like this, as I've learned, is that uh you really got to make sure you know whether a novel's in a series or not before you start reading it. We read so many books every year, and I fall into the same trap sometimes. Like we've definitely read like book three in a series without the previous ones or book one not knowing it's a series and that's um you know that's on us. Well this is book one but yes in general you're right. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. Uh yeah. Okay. What's uh what's number four? So number four I actually really So I think there are four really really really excellent books on this year's uh list. Yeah. So, this book I I don't think that this is like the fourth best book really, but we've already talked about it, so we're going to put it we're putting it here. Um, this is The Incandescent by Emily Tesh. And this is a book about a magic school, a magic boarding school in England. Um, but it's about the teachers, not the students. There's a lot of really interesting, the world is really interesting. So, there's demons and they inhabit complex things like they can inhabit people, but also they there's like small demons and printers and stuff, which is fun. Um, and but the thing that really is interesting is it's all from the point of view of the teachers and it really made me think a lot about what it would be like to try to be a good teacher who took their job really seriously and that was really interesting to me. Uh, just a different, you know, we've all experienced school, um, but most of us have not experienced being on the teaching side of it. So, it was fun to explore that. Um, and it turns out I also like, you know, like a little magic adventure from time to time. So, anyway, I had a fun time. I thought it was charming and fun. There were good stakes. Um, I just really enjoyed it all the way through. There's a fun love triangle. It was just a well done entertaining story and it was fun to explore at school. Yeah, I think I I agree with you that we don't we don't really get that in st storytelling as much. It it happens a lot in television weirdly, especially [clears throat] comedies. That's it seems like a good paradigm for like a sitcom to be Abbott Elementary teachers. Well, there's Abid Elementary, there's um uh English teacher, there's um there's a lot of great comedies that happen around teacher centric, you know, sitcom setup. Uh but yeah, we don't get that many stories like from usually it's like ya where we see it in fantasy, sci-fi, fiction, especially on the pros side. Um we we we're seeing from the students perspective. So, I agree this was interesting and also I agree with you. I think it was a very welldone romance novel because you like it too. Yeah. I thought it was so fun. I was into it. Yeah. It's like its secondary layer and I I I bought into it and I liked it like the the the human um stuff about relationships that uh that was explored. Um so I also liked incandescent. I agree. Nice. Um all right. Well, what is what's next? Number three is our book club book which thanks everybody for joining on Discord for that. That was a big long discussion. Um, very uh polarized opinions of this novel, Shroud by AdrienChaikovski. Um, which is a novel about uh far future humans. Um, a very industrial setup where, you know, we're all over the galaxy. Um, and there's not enough space for everybody. Humans are grown in vats generally. Um there's a very defined, you know, wealthy elite class and the companies, people work for these companies in exchange for getting out of their their vats um to go explore. Yeah, but the planets the people at the top of the companies have it sucky. It's sucky for everyone. It's just a sucky just it just is a bad Yeah, it's a bad kind of dystopian future. It reminded me of like that the Alien franchise really in that like Whan Utani Corporation or Bladeunner kind of feel. Um it has that kind of gritty like cyber punk in space feel um in the future. And um we are with uh character Juna who's on an an exploratory scientific mission around a moon to see if they can extract its resources. Um and you know page one Juna crash lands on the planet and it's pitch black and what are we where are we going to go from here? I don't want to get into too many spoilers, but um it's an AdrienChaikovsky. Really cool thoughts on alien life. Uh very kind of creepy, especially for an Adrian. I guess you know you could define Children of Time as creepy as well. It's just half about spiders, but depending on your viewpoint. Um and uh really interesting science uh and and a compelling um narrative along the way. Uh perhaps a little bit, you know why it falls? Um we see this sometimes with Adrien Shaikovsky. I think it's got a little bit of a middle problem. Um at least to me, uh it the middle felt like it kind of dragged along making its point. Mhm. Yeah. I um I think the thing that took away from me for me a little bit was his um I've I've read enough of his stuff now that I feel like I I I felt the same way about Alien Clay, which is I didn't really like the like dystopian corporate society thing that was happening. It just felt sort of like it felt kind of wrote um and not super [clears throat] interesting. Whereas aliens are so interesting once they were there's a big section despite the fact that on page one she crash lands on the planet. That's sort of a jump forward. Then you spend a bunch of time learning about this corporation and how they're going to strip mine the solar system and stuff. And I found that all was all kind of boring. Um I like Adrian a lot more when he's writing about aliens than he's writing about. Well, he is writing about aliens. Um and I actually found that that parallel really interesting. um as as um Escatit Habsburg um on the Discord um pointed out in book club uh it's like an interesting to parallel uh the alien mind here again don't want to spoil anything um but two like human industrial processes and like how the parts of a whole operate at the will of the powers that be and like whether that's inevitable and whether the the the process um is fair or if it doesn't really matter that it's fair cuz it's just a a piece of nature. Um, he had some really interesting thoughts on that in the book club and and I kind of agree. I like that TCikovsky kind of paralleled the alien life with the the human industrial system. And I think that while it was archetypally kind of dull and and like, you know, basic, um, it it made the point it made the the metaphor better comparing the two. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, I can see that. Um, I think you can make that metaphor without being a little bit boring though. But yeah, that's No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we could have gotten there a little bit faster and there there could have been some stuff trimmed. Uh, but Adrian writes a lot of novels, so you know, that's going to happen from time to time. Two books a year. It's crazy. I know. It's insane. Um, I also some other call outs from the the Discord, the book club discussion that I I liked. Um, Seline talked about going down a rabbit hole um into the Soviet Union's Venus probes in the 1980s and how the comparison of like that as a gaseous planet because in Shroud part of the the mystery, the creepiness is that they're on this moon that has a really dense gaseous atmosphere. So, you can't see anything. There's no light. And that's how Yes. That's how the alien life develops um different sensory inputs to to read the world and understand the world. Um and and Selen posited that maybe this the the Soviet probes onto Venus were um inspired uh Chaikovsky's imagining of the planet which I thought was really interesting take. Yeah, definitely could be. Overall, um I really enjoyed it and it felt like Tchaikovsky doing the TCikovsky thing, right? Another really crazy cool exploration into um an alien mind and like what's possible. There's also the the uh the moon life um erupting from the the primordial of geothermal energy instead of solar energy, which is really interesting. Well, that's probably what happened on Earth, too, actually. Oh, okay. Well, I'm not there's reasons to believe it's easier it's easier around a heat vent in the ocean than than on the surface. Okay. Yes. Well, that made sense. Yes, heat vents we have we have as well. Um but it was just it was interesting to see uh you know vision as our primary um sensory tool as humans and that it's like what happens to life if that's stripped away? What does that look like? Um so I I really I I did enjoy Shroud. Um though not still still children of time for me on the Adrian list at the top. I think it's my second favorite. I really liked I really liked the the adventure and the aliens and um yeah uh I wish the ending there had been a little bit more meat on the ending. I feel like we kind of like could have had a little more I wanted more actually. Um which is rare for a long book but anyway yeah I I I liked it quite a lot. Um yeah we should mention this book was also nominated for the Locust. We forgot that for the other books a bunch of the other nominees. Uh it's all this incestuous little family. I mean I'm seeing you know the parentheticals here. We don't even need to me. Every one of them's nominated sometimes in the Nebula, sometimes in the Locust, sometimes in the Arthur C. Clark. Um, we'll talk at the end again about the books we loved of 2025 that we're surprised didn't make any list. But yeah, they all kind of landed somewhere within the four major awards. All right. Well, what is next? What's the second best book on this year's go list? Second best book is is hard because these are both mine. Um, number one and number two. So, thanks Brent for trusting me to choose the best ones. Um, uh, but I think they're kind of tied, but I ended up giving the the the number two slot to Drop of Corruption by uh Robert Jackson Bennett, who we've interviewed on the show last year for the the first book in this series, Tainted Cup, after it won the Hugo last year. incredible uh Hzian mystery and a fantasy world that's set up uh around these giant creatures, the Leviathans that roam the earth. And all of the society and empire is organized around it's a fantasy novel, just mind you. All of that this society is organized into this empire that sole purpose kind of is to protect humanity from these Leviathans who seemingly just kind of stroll around and wreck stuff. Um, and the in the first novel, there's just so much good show don't tell worldb building that happens around a murder mystery and and solving this murder mystery um with Anna and Den, our two main characters who are like the Holmes and and Watson um [snorts] in the in this fantasy realm and they're employed by the the Empire. The Empire is basically um I don't want to say like JAG officers but like uh detectives I guess but like FBI detectives. Um and the second novel Drop of Corruption follows them to a far uh kind of colony of the Empire, Yarodale, where they do a lot of research in the bay at this mysterious building called the Shroud. um Shroud again, uh where they research Leviathans and what kind of what's happening in Leviathans and can humans use any of that in their defense against them or in their other technologies. Um and so we're we're in another murder mystery and we we build upon Den and Anna's character and more of the world building. Um it's a really excellent read. I loved it as a follow-up. And the third novel, A Trade of Blood, was just published on August 4th. Um so I'm stoked to read that. uh especially after talking to uh Mr. Bennett last year and uh hearing that we might get to learn more and more, you know, like the the world's going to enlarge as the series goes on. Yeah, I'm very excited to read um both of those as well. Uh okay. Yeah. Number one. What's number one? Yeah. Do do you want me to just talk some more? [laughter] You know, sometimes you get lucky. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and I and lucky I did get here. Um, The Everlasting by Alex Harrow was a surprise to me. Um, it actually won the Locust Award this year for fantasy. The Locust Awards are split into sci-fi and fantasy, so there's six for each. Um, and I'm not surprised by that at all. I think it might win the Hugo. I think it probably should win the Hugo or maybe a Drop of Corruption to, you know, the backtoback um, RJB. But um this novel, The Everlasting, is a time travel novel. Uh this one's a hard one not to spoil, so I'm not going to give you too much, but essentially a time travel novel between a fantasy future that is World War IIish, World Era, somewhere in there. Um but is is all fictional, and then a past kind of Arththerian Knights Kingdom type thing. And it's a it's essentially a love story between two characters um Sir Una Everlasting and Owen uh from the modern day and the way they connect through time and uh it's really uh gripping it. The the it's a page turner. Um the the themes are wonderful. The way that time travel is explored in this novel, it surely would have ended up on our best time travel novels. um had we read it by last year or I don't not even sure I guess it had just been published. Um it is a really cool use of time travel as a trope and um a really touching and gripping story. I loved it. Nice. I'm excited about that one too. Yeah, we'll have to uh you know we'll have to maybe a few years from now we'll have to do another like a little time travel redux if we find some more some more good ones. We have to do that for our lists because of course more good stuff keeps getting written, right? And we travel back in time and redo the time, etc. Haha. [laughter] It's all self-fulfilling. Um, speaking of time, this is our hundth episode as we mentioned earlier. Um, and we just wanted to say thank you to everybody for listening and participating in Discord and reaching out to us and the guests we've had along the way. Um, and thank you Brent for doing this with me. Um, it's been a really special and fun project. Um, and we can't thank you all enough. Yeah, for sure. I feel the same way. This has made, you know, life changes a lot and books have always been such like an important part of my life and they're always like steady and there and this has made that into something that's more than something I do alone. So, thank you for doing this with me too and thank you everybody for being with us and like yeah. Anyway, this has been awesome and looking forward to many, many more. Yes, let's get to two for sure. Well, so should we talk about should we talk about some other books from 2020? Who should have been nominated that wasn't one of the all the best books of the year? Yeah, I think we should. And do you want to just you want to just keep rolling? No. How about you? Why don't you take a turn? Okay, I'll talk about The Devils by Joe Abberrombie. So, this is a fantasy novel. Um, was it nominated for anything? It was nominated for the locust for fantasy. Um Joe Abberi is most famous for writing the first law trilogy and he people call his writing grim dark. Uh it's it's um you know the characters a lot of them are morally ambiguous and the worlds sort of have these dark settings. Anyway, uh the Devils is set in a an altered version of the Middle Ages basically. So our characters are sent from Rome to Constantinople. uh and along the way um are attacked by all kinds of of other cleanants to the throne of Constantinople. Um and so it's it's the devils is the Pope's basically henchmen her uh I think in our in our episode Cody you called them the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen which I think is really close. They're also kind of like the Suicide Squad but anyway they're all it's a bunch of uh unholy characters. There's a vampire, there's a werewolf, there's a man who can't die. Uh I'm I'm forgetting a couple. Uh oh, there's a magician. Uh although I think he hates that word, right? Is he a magician or is he a a sorcerer? One of the two is a bad word. No, he doesn't like the sorcerer word, I guess. Oh, he doesn't want to be a sorcerer. Okay. Yeah. Um anyway, so they all have been convicted of heresy and in penance have to do these missions for the pope and this mission is deliver uh this this popper to the the to Constantinople to become the the eastern uh empress. Uh anyway, there's a bunch of things that are really interested and twisted in the world. Religion is somewhat different but a lot of similarities. Um there are the the elves are in the east in the south instead of like so the crusades are against elves instead of against you know Muslim humans. Um and the elves maybe are really quite bad. We'll find out in the next book. Anyway, it's a really fun adventure. It's really funny actually. I laughed quite a bit. Um it's fun. I thought it was a really it was a really great book. Um I it's an easier entrance to it's more light-hearted than the first law I would say. So, um I think Joe is quite a good writer. Uh and um if you haven't read him before, I think this is a pretty good easy way in page turner. Fun to read. Yeah. And this is our book club book in the fall actually. Yes. There's we have an episode on it. Um we did the book club book in the fall. If you all haven't joined one of our book book clubs or just want to uh come chat more about books, please do join our discord. It's really fun. We do the book clubs a couple times a year and we get to chat about them and then we get to chat about each other about a bunch of stuff on the side. Um, you know, uh, it's just enjoyable. It's like one of my favorite parts about doing the show. So, come Yeah, we'll probably do another one here pretty soon now that Shroud is over and here we are making the episode. So, anyway, [clears throat] come on down so you can vote on what the next book will be. Yes. Um, okay. So, I have another couple. I'm going to go quick quick because these are the two that I love the most from the Nebulas. um The Buffalo Hunter Hunter by Steven Graham Jones, which is a kind of historic horror fantasy novel um that is impeccably written um essentially about 1912 Montana and um the you know the problems of uh the colonization of America um over the Native Americans um it specifically centers around the Black Feet tribe here um but interposed with uh I don't want to spoil but you know a a fantasy trope that really uh accentuates the themes of of colonialism. Um that the historical uh perspective that Graeme Jones uses, the voice of the different characters as it's told through kind of three different characters from their perspectives is incredible. Um the voice switching is wonderful and I I adored it. Yes, there's a modern era of frame story and today she's reading a journal that was written in 1912. And this in the journal in 1912, a lot of it is telling the story of that was that was told verbally to him by this uh black blackfoot uh from the 1880s. And so you get all these time periods. They're all super well done. Yeah. And there's some interesting revenge porn stuff happening as you perhaps would guess from the title. Um yeah, fun fun book. Really interesting. Um yeah, I'm definitely surprised it wasn't nominated for the Hugos as well and like all the nebula. We weren't surprised. Yeah. Yeah. Um the another one um is Sour Cherry by Natalyia Theodor Theodoru or maybe Teodoru. Anyways um that was also a Nebula nom nominee. a really interesting um like framed as a fairy tale uh kind of magical um in in the frame tale itself like what's really going on here? Um but essentially just a story about um domestic violence um abuse uh but but told through in in as a fairy tale. Um it's really strong writing and a very very interesting format that I've not seen before. Um, all just worth a read, worth a mention. And next, I'm going to talk about Slow Gods by Cla North. So, this is a This was like your fave. Yeah, this is my fave of the non Hugos. Um, uh, for sci-fi in particular. So, this is a Locust nominee. Um, and it is the beginning, the first maybe 10 15% I was a little worried that I had picked up something I wasn't going to love because it seemed like a fairly standard dystopia. there's sort of like a corporation that rules a bunch of planets and it's not a nice place to live and if you question the authority there's police and stuff but then um the main character dies and comes back to life and doesn't really understand why and no one does and there you start to get to explore the broader world and there's a bunch of really interesting things that happen but one of them is a supernova occurs and there's faster than light travel plus there's this the slow from the title is an AI who doesn't travel faster than light but is incredibly powerful they're the most intelligent thing in the universe and periodically they announce things to the rest of the universe I'll say the galaxy anyway and one of the things they announce is hey there's a binary star system that's going to collapse into a supernova and I'm going to tell you that it's going to happen in roughly a hundred And the closest planet to that binary star system is many many many inhabited human worlds are going to be destroyed. And a bunch of the action of this book takes place on the one that is the closest. And it's all about what would happen. And so a bunch of the people try to leave and a bunch of them do and they're refugees going to other planets. But not everyone can leave. It's just not possible. It's not physically possible to get billions of people off this planet in 100 years. And so a bunch of them are going to die. Their civilization is going to die. And the way people respond to that is extremely interesting. There's all kinds of human reactions to that, as one might imagine. I think she explores them all really well without a lot of judgment, but just really thinking about how humans re respond to catastrophe. I've never really read anything like that. And the reason I liked it so much is one, we are all going to die. And so thinking there's a lot of parallels to like a human life. But the other thing is this is true for planets too, right? Like if we on Earth invent interstellar travel, well, we're not all going on ships. It's not possible. There's not enough energy to move billions of people off a planet. Not even close. Our star system is going to die and our almost everyone on Earth is going to die. And how do you think about that? And anyway, there's a lot about like what makes life beautiful and what makes life sad. It was awesome. Oh, and then this is all this all happens like in the middle of the book. There's a whole bunch of cool stuff that happens at the end where the extremely interesting bad bad guys, you know, there's a conflict with them. It's there's just so much cool stuff that happens in this book. Really philosophical, really interesting, some cool sci-fi stuff. I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. Yeah. Okay. I It's next on my list and I'm stoked to read it because of how much you've you've enjoyed it. Um I and um I also think it's a really great segue. You're kind of uh you know dwelling on death and the death of uh the the individual human and then the death of a planet and then the death of a solar system and the death of time itself. Um is a really great segue to the next thing which is why is everybody writing about only sad stuff right now? This is my thing this year. I for some context here when we do these episodes and we think about the the books from 2025, we have obviously the ones we've already read. We have the ones from the the four major uh sci-fi fantasy awards, the genre awards. I also will go on uh Goodreads sometimes if I have time to read extra books and read like the top five from each of the the reader choice on Goodreads fantasy and sci-fi section. I read eight of those books. Seven of them were a strikeout. What are we doing? Um, all of them were so pessimistic about the future of humanity. Dystopian, post-apocalyptic, whatever it is. Um, I'm I'm reading what I want. What I want next is more not Ministry of the Future because that was okay. Sorry. Sorry, KSR. Um, more exciting, but I want like some solutions. How about some optimism about where we're going? some some solutions to things because I I do believe that, you know, humanity can work its way through problems and always has. Um and and I'd love to see some of those ideas instead of novels about how the you know, yeah, the climate's really bad, so we're just going to die and we're just going to like kind of sit here and let it happen. I'm probably just like it's just like someone else someone else did that so like I'm just going to like hang out and like let it happen. I don't know. That was a lot of what I got from from these novels. Um and also there were a lot of like Today Show and Good Morning America picks on there. Um so it's a really interesting it's a weird year for good readads. One did stand out which was uh also an Arthur C. Clark nominee for sci-fi. uh and and a Pulitzer Prize nominee, which I think is incorrect, but um The Dream Hotel by Leila Lami. Uh I'm sure a lot of you have heard of it. Um so I so I went in and read it. Um it is not my favorite novel. Uh it's it's a it's about um essentially a it's kind of minority reportish. It's been essentially AI um gets gives everybody a score kind of like a credit score and if your score is too high then the government has the ability to detain you in like a a low security prison until your score improves when when you're being um while you're being monitored because the score is to determine whether you are likely to commit a crime in the future. Uh, and what while I didn't love this novel and I thought it kind of cheated through a lot of like near future sci-fi thinking um that that felt a little bit um inongruous or just narrative convenient, you know, like if AI is as powerful as it is in this novel, why is there a woman who works doing data science by like looking for causal connections between things by hand. That doesn't make sense. Um, anyways, uh, what it did do overall was m make me feel really like this the the main character, the protagonist was trapped and and unfairly. It was palpable injustice and it was powerful because it's happening right now um all over, right? U detention of people uh for for very little reason or just because of the color of their skin. Um and it also is something that large data companies um and the American government are trying to roll out like future crime prevention um statistical uh future crime prevention techniques that's being prototyped right now. Um and and it it just uh it felt really scary and unfair and I was in it with them. Um, so I I did end up liking the novel. Okay. Well, bet. You got one. I mean, not good. One of eight is not a good great hit list, but thank you for reading all eight of those so we can just read the good one. Yeah. Um, and that was uh verbose, but you know, check out The Dream Hotel if you want to be like feel really anxious. My wife actually quit reading it a little bit the ways in because she was like, I can't do this. It's making me too It's making me too anxious. For sure. Um, okay. Why don't you do our last our very last one which is shocking that it's not on any of these lists. Maybe it's like a wasn't submitted or was some sort of publishing catch. It is on one of the lists. So this is there is no anti-mimetics division by QTM which was nominated for the R3C Clark Award. Um sorry. Uh but yeah, we so we have an episode on this one. It's a really really really interesting book. It's a very novel idea and we like that quite a lot. We read a lot of books so reading something that feels fresh and new is very fun. Um that idea is what if there were ideas that could make you forget themselves basically. Um ideas/monsters in the book they're they're embodied but yeah so so ideas sort of have have physical form. Yeah. They can make you forget themselves but they can also make you do bad things and they can hurt you. They can kill you. And so there's this idea of like embodied ideas and there's this organization trying to stop them from destroying the world. Um it's very interesting. Very very very interesting. The ending is a little muddled. Um but man, I had a really fun time along the way. Yeah, I even liked the ending. Although, yeah, a lot of people talked about the ending being questionable. Um yeah, and we like I said, we had a whole episode on on that one as well. We we loved it. And uh again, I'm just wondering if there's some sort of like reason that it couldn't be nominated for Hugos or Nebulas or something like because it's a surprising rules might be different. Yeah, because it was self-published online many years ago, right? And it just got Yeah. published by a publisher last year. Yeah, the Hugos and Nebulas could have different rules for that for sure. That's pro That's probably what it is. Um well, anyways, uh hopefully this gives you some uh good suggested reading going forward. uh for from from what came out last year. And if anybody's writing out there, please write me something about write some ideas about how we progress as humanity in a positive way for sure. Uh we certainly won't do nothing. That's we'll wait until we've created a very bad problem and then we'll do something. That's our way. Anyway, uh cool. Well, I'll see you for the next 100 episodes and that means we'll have to read about 5,000 books. So, uh yeah, it'll be fun. Yeah, man. Thanks for being here with me. For sure. Keep reading everybody.
