[1] Top 10 Fantasy Published in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lazwqEUk78E

Today I'm here to talk about the top 10 fantasy books that I read that were published in 2025. This is the start of my end of the year content for new releases. And when it comes to fancy, it's always easy to put together these lists because there is so much fancy coming out that it's not hard to find 10 that I consider at least four stars. I am going to rank these. But most of these books are quite on par with each other. So, on a different day, I could probably rank them a little bit differently, but I'll put them together just so you have something to go through knowing that I'm going to leave my favorites at the end of the video. So, if that all sounds good, let's get started. First, at the number 10 spot, we have The Sorer of the Sea by Stephan Aaron, which is the third and final book in the trilogy that I've been following for years. This is a piece of fiction and fantasy inspired by historical Mongolian culture. Very much making nods to Gingis Kong and the legacy that he made. And so, as someone who's always been fascinated by this culture, it really was enjoyable to read through this fictional work. And I have read various other non-fiction pieces on this man. And again, the legacy, the culture that comes afterwards, which is largely what is the focus of these stories. These are all just really enjoyable. I love the world building, the characters and so forth. And so again, if you've read the earlier books, definitely recommend seeing the series through. The consistency is definitely there, and I love that you get more depth, more background, and more world building in the later books like this one. Then at number nine, we have The Griffin King by Sarah Omar. And this is the first book in a series where we follow this character who was known and very much made the reputation by killing this griffin. And then we follow them as adults. So very much it's a story of waring factions where you have different people vying for power. I love the non-European setting, which is something I often look for in fantasy, just something a little bit different and very much having a feel of the kind of fantasy I think that's very popular that I am pulled into these days, which is a lot of again those that perhaps have loose inspirations by things like a song of ice and fire where again you have various individuals who are vying for power and so forth. And you see that manipulation, that lust to gain and control and keep that power, which is a major theme throughout this story. again is the start of a series and I definitely look forward to reading more. Then at number eight, we have Written in the Dark by Guy Gabriel K. And this is a story that follows a poet who gets pulled into a larger narrative that involves assassins, backstabbing and so forth, and the story goes on from there. This, I think, is one of the most accessible places to start with this author's work. I've really enjoyed his writing before. His stories in my mind tend to be more traditional, which as I mentioned are not normally to my taste. But there is something about again his pros, the way he puts together stories that is so well done that it makes someone like me who often says they're looking for something fresh and different to really appreciate going back to something that is more classical in terms of the plotting, the tropes, and so forth. But when it's done so masterfully well, I can't help but appreciate and really understand why people love the genre so much and again love its more traditional roots. So I do recommend this author. I do think this is a great place to start. And while it's not my personal favorite of his work, again, it is just a really immersive story that again I think is one of his more commercial pieces, easy to put in a lot of readers hands. Then at number seven, we have The Raven Scholar by Antonia Hodins. And this is one where we follow a group of individuals that are competing to become the next ruler of the land. However, something goes wrong. And this is all in the basic setup and synopsis. They are killed. And so the story primarily is focused on this scholar who is tasked with finding out who is the murderer among this group. This is a story filled with political intrigue. Again, a story that very much centers around the lust for power. And so it's a lot of questions about who can you trust, who is lying, who has secrets, which is something I really get pulled into. I think it has a great balance of plot and pacing, good characters, and again, it is a chunky book, but in my mind, because of the topping and the way it's handled, it's a narrative you will fly through and was just a really easy read, and again, one that I think will have a lot of mass appeal among those that love this genre. Then at number six, we have Crossroads of Raven, which is the Witcher prequel that came out in English this year. And I'm actually surprised it is as low down on this list. And it's not that I didn't enjoy it, but rather again that it was such a good year for me for fantasy, that there are other books I enjoyed a touch more. I think largely with this one, again, I love returning back to the world of The Witcher, getting to see Geralt's backstory cuz this one is set right after he becomes a Witcher. So, we see a much younger, greener version of Geralt as we know. This one is great for those especially that are attached to Geralt since he is much more the main focus of the story, which is not necessarily the case in the wider Witcher narrative of the original series of books. This one again was enjoyable, but because it is a prequel, it's often something I struggle with where the stakes of this one and the story and plotting just don't feel as big because again, the challenge with writing a prequel is that you need to end the story in a way that makes sense and continues on the narrative. So, you know, certain characters have plot armor and are safe, etc., which in my mind takes some of the excitement out of the story because you know how things need to go in order for the rest of the books to exist. And so I do think that it limits the writing in a way that again makes it a good book, an enjoyable one. Am I glad I read it? Absolutely. I'm putting it on my favorites list, but I'm justifying why it's not personally higher on mine. Then breaking into the number five spot, we have Breath of the Dragon by Shannon Lee and Fonda Lee. And this is a co-written book that I believe is technically shelved as young adult, but trust me, I think it has a lot of cross appeal and avoids a lot of the YA tropes that normally turn me off of books written for that age category. This one follows a young martial artist who is very enthusiastic. He wants to compete and become the best. However, his father does not necessarily agree with that and as often goes in these kind of books. Because of that disagreement, the boy decides to take matters into his own hands and the story goes on from there. Now, this one is clearly a love letter to the classic martial art films and so forth. And that is very much apparent in the book. If you are familiar with the Green Bone Saga and other books that Fondly has written, she often has martial arts as a major component of her stories with that close combat. And I think it's really well done here. I often say I'm not someone who typically get that interested or excited by combat scenes in stories. They're not necessarily something that I'm really looking for in my books, but hers are so well done. They are so well described that again I just can't help but picture what's happening being excited, worried, and really again imagining it as if it is happening in a cinematic way in front of my eyes. So highly recommend this to anyone who loves martial arts, those films, and just loves a little action-packed story. Again, despite the categorization, I do think that any adult who is okay with a story that technically has younger characters is going to be pleased with this one. It definitely has that all ages appeal that I was looking for. Then at number four, we have The Serpent Called Mercy by Rowan Low. And this is one that follows a young girl or young woman who is in poverty. She's on the streets. And so her and her friend decide to go and compete in these arena competitions in order to hopefully move up in society, win some money, and so forth. And so this is another story actually very similar to the last one. And if you're interested in that one, I do recommend this one as well, where you have a story that is very much centralized around close combat fighting and again done in a way that appeals to people like me who don't normally go out of their way to look for those kind of stories, but maybe I should because I'm finding that there are some that are very well done, very well described, that are exciting and fun and so forth. I am a sucker for the kind of stories that involve a character who is the underdog down on their luck, scrapping and fighting for a place in society that are coming from nothing. And so a book like this from the first page to the first chapter completely grabbed my attention. I found the main character to be very sympathetic. And again, because I cared about her, it made the whole book engaging for me because again, I wanted to know how it was all going to come about. And because of that, again, I had that emotional connection to the book that really kept me hooked all the way to the end. Then in the number third spot, we have A History of Chronommancy by Andrew Row. And this is the newest release in this longunning progression fantasy series that begins with sufficiently advanced magic. I've been talking about the series on and off throughout the year, so I'll keep it brief. In the first book, we follow a young man who is going off to this magic school. He's trying to get an attunement or magical powers and abilities and skills so he can look for his lost brother. And then this book takes place many years after as the story is progressing, years have gone by in school and so forth. It is a series that I love the beginning and I'll be honest, my interest in the series was starting to wayne in some of the middle books to the point that I was getting the the decision. I didn't think I'd actually continue on, but I had the ability to pick up this one. And I did take advantage of that. And I'm so glad I did because this one hooked me completely back in. and it plays around with time, as the title suggests, in a really fun way. And again, it just made me fall in love with the series all over again. I'm now dying for the next book. And I'm really glad that the author just kicked it up a notch and is keeping this story exciting with lots of progression, movement on the page, and I just want more of the series all over again. As I record this video, I'm really anxious just to do a reread of this book because it was so much fun. At the number two spot, we have Red City by Marie Lou. This is a book that completely surprised me and I'm even just shocked how high it is up on this video. But the fact is I had a great time with it. Is the story that follows this young poor woman who gets the ability to become the apprentice of someone and learn the hidden secrets of alchemy. And so it is a story that is very much that magic school type setting where you have a student learning about the magic. And so it's slowly exposed to the reader. Something I'm always into. I've always enjoy those kind of stories. And there's very much a darkness to this one. It felt like it had little threads or tones similar to something like Full Metal Alchemist for those of you that are familiar with the manga or anime that I'm referring to. And while this is very much its own, it again just completely pulled me in. So needless to say, if you're someone who loves a dark school-like setting within a story, this is definitely one you want to check out. And finally, at the number one spot, we have Catabasis or Catabasis. I never know how I'm saying it. I'm always saying it wrong. And that of course is by RF Quang, one of my favorite fantasy authors. I know she is very hit or miss with some readers, but for me, she is pretty much always a win, and that was very much the case here with this one. It is a story that involves PhD students that go to literally hell in order to save their professor, not because they're doing out of the good of their heart, but because they want to be able to pass and get their final education and move on. This is a story that is clearly a love letter or maybe a hate letter to higher institution learning and the conversations around what graduates need to go through in order to get again not just their degrees but more so again their PhDs and so forth. And so it talks about the prejudice, the stereotypes, the sweat, blood and tears that goes into the hard work, the papers that they write. And it's a great commentary. I'll admit at times it did drag a little bit. It's very long-winded. It's very much written for a particular audience. It was not a five-st star read for me even though it is the top of this list. But again, I do have great things to say about it. I've done a longer video. It's not for everyone. So, I do recommend checking that one out to see if it's something up your alley. But while it is not my favorite of her books, I'm really glad I read it this year. And definitely a book again that well after finishing it, I'm still thinking about it, which is always a good sign with a book. So, that's it for this video here. I'd love to know the books I talked about. Which ones are you planning on checking out for yourself? And I'd love to know if I missed one. What is your favorite fantasy published in 2025? Drop it down below in the comments. If I haven't read it, I will definitely try to check it out next year. Don't forget, if you're new to my channel to consider subscribing. I am doing more end of the year content coming shortly. I have a whole playlist that should be linked down below as well. And if you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs up. Drop an emoji. Even just a stack of books lets me know you're here. And if you hit that little notification bell, you'll never miss a video from me. Thanks so much for watching. Talk to you again soon. Okay, bye-bye. [music] [music]
