[1] Fantasy Romance Book Haul (2025) // New Releases, Indie Finds & Unhinged Book Boyfriends — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=teOyA2x-uTo

Hi guys, it's Jess from Honest Fiction and welcome back to my channel. In today's video, I'm going to be sharing my most recent fantasy romance book haul. [Music] All right, guys. So, I know I just posted a book haul a little over a month ago, but if you notice behind me, I have recently completely reorganized my office. Honestly, my background hasn't changed too too much, but all of the rest of the bookshelves in my office are now completely organized. I did a massive unhaul, and I really wish I filmed it, but it was very spontaneous. One day, I just decided to take all of the books out of my office and reorganize them and get rid of some. Now, because I did this, I decided to reward myself by buying books. So, hence this book haul. There were a lot of fantasy romance and romanty books that ended up releasing at the end of June, beginning of July. So, I did purchase quite a few. So, like all of my other book hauls, I will give you a spoiler-free plot synopsis of every book and then my overall feelings if I've read it. Now, almost all of these books are romanty with only two contemporaries that I'll save for the end. But I am so excited to talk about these books with you guys. Now, if you're unfamiliar with my channel, I post new videos every Wednesday and Sunday. If you haven't yet, please like and subscribe. You can also hit that notification bell to be notified whenever I post new bookish content. You can also check out my Instagram, Goodreads, and Patreon, all linked down below. With all that out of the way, let's talk about these books. All right, guys. So, starting off with special editions. First up, we have A Dance of Lies. Now, I believe this is Fairy Loot's July adult book of the month, and this is a debut fantasy romance, and at the time of filming this, it is sitting at right under four stars. So, really, really good for a debut, and I've heard amazing things. Apparently, this features rival courts and also has disability rep. But in the story, we are following this girl that used to be a court dancer until she ends up being framed for murder and sent to the dungeons. Now, when she gets to the dungeons, she ends up being confronted by the king who offers her a bargain. If she will be his spy, then he will eventually, I believe, grant her freedom or she can just stay and rot in the dungeons for all eternity. So, she ends up taking him up on this offer. And as she's working as his spy, she starts to have to do more and more deplorable things until she decides she's gonna ally with the king from a rival kingdom. So, I'm not exactly sure if this is like a love triangle or what exactly the romance is in this book, but overall it has amazing reviews and I've been seeing this on Bookstagram and people seem to be loving it. So, hoping to get to this at some point in August. Now, like I said, this is the Fairy Loot Special Edition. So, gorgeous artwork on the inside. I don't know if you guys can really see that. And then, oh, it also has a reversible dust jacket, which I just realized. So, that's the artwork. This is the naked hardback, sprayed edges, and then this is the reversible dust jacket. So, super pretty. Fairy Loot always kills it. And next up, we have Rose and Chains by Julie Sodto. Now, this was Fairy Loot's June romanty pick. And I obviously had no idea this was going to be the selection because I pre-ordered, I believe, the Target version. So, this is the US cover. There's also a UK cover that looks completely different. I really like this cover. However, it does give a lot of nods to the original IP. So, if you're unfamiliar with Rose and Chains, this started out as Dermione fanfic, The Auction, and then all of the nods to Harry Potter and Handmaid's Tale were removed, and it has since been traded. So, I recently binged this book, and honestly, I thought it was pretty good. I think there are some issues with world building, but I'll get into that more in my July wrap-up. But if you're unfamiliar with the plot of this story, we are following Bry and Bry was once part of a very powerful magical family, but the war has ended. Her family has lost and now she has had all of her magical abilities stripped away from her and she is being sold at auction. So, she ends up being in the hands of the family of her greatest enemy, who also happened to be a boy that she had a decent crush on when they were in school together. So, it's their romance. This is a dark romance. Please check trigger warnings. I do appreciate this author did include the triggers in the audio book. I know sometimes authors don't do that, but there was quite a list before the book even really got going. But once again, I thought this was good. I read this entire book in a day. I was that into the story. Thought the pacing was very well done. I just feel like we needed a lot more world building. And I really have issues with the author naming the main character Bry as opposed to the other name. I just feel like they are so so similar. But overall, I did I did enjoy this. Now, the art on the inside of this is also absolutely gorgeous. So, this is the naked hardback. Once again, very similar to the original IP. Don't know how I feel about that. And the back. I do love that art though. It's really pretty. Sprayed edges. And then this is actually the UK cover. So, perfect. You get to see all of them. So, the reversible dust jacket is the UK cover. And then I don't know if there's any art in this version. I don't think so. So, this one is just the cover. But anyway, if you have read Rose and Chains and you've read the auction, let me know which did you like better. And last up for Fairy Loot, we have Bury Our Bones in the Midnight Soil. This is V E Schwab's newest adult fantasy release, and I've kind of heard mixed things since this book has come out. So, first, all I kept hearing about this was toxic lesbian vampires, and apparently that's still a thing. But in this story, we are essentially following the lives of three different women spanning a bunch of different time periods. And this is multi-pov and multi-timeline. That doesn't always work for me. Sometimes I find it very jarring once I kind of get situated with a character and a timeline to then be ripped out of it isn't my favorite. I've also heard this is probably the most similar to The Invisible Life of Addie Laroo than any of her other books. So that makes me somewhat more interested cuz that is one of my favorite books by V. E. Schwab. So I'm very curious. If you've read this, let me know. I have seen a lot of critiques, but not a lot about the actual like plot of this book or the story. So I am very very curious. But once again, here is the book. I will Ooh, really pretty artwork on the inside. I hadn't looked at it yet. So, here is the naked hardback, which also absolutely gorgeous. And then the inside artwork, really pretty. And on this side, and then the reversible dust jacket. So, yeah. Let me know if you've read this. Do you think it's a book I would enjoy? Because I am very, very curious. And next up for special editions, I have Lady of Darkness. This is the Aurora Crate version. Now, I've accepted if Melissa Korri has a special edition, I will probably try to buy it. I love every single book I've read by her so far. They have been amazing. My Patreon is currently about to finish our Lady of Darkness readalong, and oh my gosh, it has been so much fun reading those books along with my patrons. Literally one of the highlights of my month every time we do those live shows. But anyway, in August, I believe we are going to be starting the Legacy Readalong and I already pre-ordered the Aurora Crate Legacies book one and two. So, very excited about that. But if you're unfamiliar with Lady of Darkness, I feel like I have pitched this series so much on my channel, so I'll keep this very brief. We are following this young girl when she was a baby. She was adopted by an assassin lord who taught her how to be an excellent killer. Now she wants to get revenge on the Fa Fire prince that she believes killed her family, but the assassin lord is kind of holding this information over her head until one day Scarlet discovers that these children are going missing. Also, a stranger comes to her kingdom and it really all goes from there. But if you enjoy Throne of Glass and A Court of Thorns and Roses, you will love this series. It's like a darker, grittier version, and I love love love this special edition. So, like I said, this is from Aurora Crate. It has Scarlet on the end pages. It also came with really cool artwork. And then on the inside, we have Scarlet and her sisters, the Wraiths, and I absolutely love that. And then the reversible dust jacket also has Scarlet. So, I am so excited to add this book to my collection. All right, so next up is The Secrets of Jane Forgotten. I talked about this book in my June wrap-up. It is criminally underhyped. This book was fantastic. If you like forced proximity, a kind of morally gray hero with very interesting powers that would be very useful in the bedroom and a heroine that is so so fiery, like almost feral. At one point, she destroys an entire room just because someone makes her mad. I just I loved everything about this book. It also features pirates. A lot of it set on the water, so the perfect like summer romanty. But essentially, we are following Jane and Jane has spent her entire life trying to escape her past. That is until a mercenary ends up finding her and forces her to return to Skulls Row, which is essentially a grouping of these very deadly like pirate organization. And it really goes from there. It's kind of better to go into this slightly blind, but I wasn't expecting the amount of like romanty tropes, if that makes sense. I went into this very much expecting like a pirate romance, and there's a decent amount of like elemental magic and things like that. So, I loved this and I really, really hope the audio book for book two drops soon. And next up is another new release, Terror at the Gates by Scarlett Sinclair. This is a top read of the year and I am not normally a huge urban fantasy fan. I loved this. This is essentially what I wanted Crescent City to be. So in this story, it is set in this city of I think it's called the Vea, but it's essentially a city of sin. We are following Lilith Leviathan who is a thief who possesses outlawed magic. But when a cursed blade makes her the target of both powerful families and also the church, she has to rely on her old friend Zaharev. I always butcher his name. I'm pretty sure that's how it's said. Zaharev, who once again is her friend, but is also the entire ruler of this like sin city organization. So, it's their romance. He falls first. He's essentially run Danon, but with a haircut and not Fay. And like I said, this is what I wanted Crescent City to be. It definitely has that like kind of gothic noir type feel to it. We're following this girl as she's in this like very seedy city, but she also is like a complete badass. Like I absolutely loved her, but I love the romance in this also so so much. I am typically not someone who loves a hero that falls first. I normally like it to be either mutual or sometimes the girl realize at first, but I love the fact that this guy would do anything for this woman and it takes her so long to kind of like pick up on it. But overall, this was so much fun and like I said, a top read of the year. And next up, we have a forbidden alchemy. Now, this one I have not picked up yet. It is an adult fantasy romance and apparently we are following these two children from a mining town that end up being selected to go to this prestigious magical university in a glittering city only to then uncover a very dark secret. So they go their separate ways only for years later to collide on opposite sides of a rising war. And the story I guess really progresses from there. I'm not sure if it's a romance between the two of them, although I do assume so. But I have had a few friends that have read this and they both rated it pretty high, but they did say at the beginning is a little bit slow. I'm pretty sure we're following these uh two main characters from when they're children. So, I guess we're watching them like slowly grow up. So, yeah, that could take some time. But besides the pacing, I've heard nothing but amazing things. So, I will definitely be reading this in August. And next up, we have Never the Roses. Now, I'm going to be honest. This was a complete impulse buy. I was at Target. I didn't realize they were having a buy three for the price of two sale. I already had two books and this one just happened to be within grabable distance. But I did also pick it because it had really pretty sprayed edges. But it turns out it is a fantasy romance. So in this story, adult fantasy romance. In the story, we are following this retired sorceress who apparently played a big role in this war, but now just wants to live a life of like peace and solitude. Well, everything kind of changes when a book is stolen and an unlikely correspondence kind of starts up with her greatest rival, Stephanos, who is a sorcerer that is under a spell, I believe, by a corrupt king. and through their correspondence, I'm assuming our main character kind of sees the need to rejoin this war and I'm assuming save her friend. But I know very little about this. It has a 3.8 right now on Goodreads, which is fairly good. So, let me know if you've read this. Do you think this is something I would enjoy? Um, I really, once again, impulse buy, but I will say this book is absolutely stunning. All right, this next book is unlike any book I have ever read in my entire life. It is somehow a gothic historical fiction, but also there's a romance kind of thrown in. Also paranormal and horror. It's It is a lot. It's also well over 600 pages. So, Fairyale by Veronica Lancet. I had been wanting to read this book for years. I had a really close friend on Bookstagram that pretty much anytime she recommends me a book, I read it, it's normally a five-star. So, she told me about this book. Unfortunately, there was no audio. So, as soon as I found out there was an audio book releasing, I became really excited and tried to hunt down this specific cover of this book. So, this book is being re-released, I believe, as Trad. This is the indie version, and they completely changed the cover, but I thought this cover was stunning. So, also huge shout out to Christy from my Patreon. She told me to check eBay. I don't know why. Never would have thought to check eBay for books and I was able to get this pretty cheap. So, if you're looking for this cover, uh they had a lot available when I was looking. But anyway, in this story, we are following Darcio Sullivan. It's set in 19 No, it's not uh 1955. She is an English school teacher and she ends up traveling to this coastal town known as Fairyale where she is going to get the inheritance of her father who has recently passed away. Now, when she gets there, she starts to realize there are very strange things about this town. There are mysterious deaths. There's also just very disturbing events that take place. And two men begin to haunt her, one during the day and one at night. And that is where I'm going to leave the plot of this book. But let me just say, I buddy read this with friends. Had this not been a buddy read, I probably would have DNFed. This book actually did put me in a reading slump. I was like also put me like in a terrible mood. It's very dark, but not really with content. It's just like the vibes of this book, specifically the first half, are very, very depressing. and you'll have no idea what's going on throughout most of this book. And I thought that with Sarah A. Parker's writing, oh no, this takes it to a new level. I never knew what was happening with this book until the very last like 100 pages. That being said, I did end up giving this four stars because the ending, I don't know how the author came up with any of this. The writing is also beautiful and things are described in such detail that you can visualize them so so well and sometimes I wish I couldn't. But overall, I recommend this if the plot sounds interesting to you, but just know it is it is a very confusing book, very unique, and I don't think it's going to be for everyone. And next up, we have The Irresistible Urge to Fall Your Enemy by Bridgette Kemer. This also started out as Harry Potter fanfic that had all the nods to Harry Potter removed and was traditionally published. Now, I will say unlike Rose and Chains, apparently this one does deviate uh greatly from the original fanfic. So, it is very much a fresh story. My biggest complaint with this is one, there is a lot of dialogue, and I understand a lot of books feature a lot of dialogue, but it was really making it hard for me to get invested. I just couldn't picture anything. It was just it was a lot of words. And honestly, I feel like the humor in this was way more intelligent than I am. I I was just I had a really rough go. I only made it about seven or eight chapters into this and then I was like, I I don't I don't think this is for me. So, I might give it another try. We will see. But I have noticed I've had a few friends who have also DNFed. But I also have some of my patrons that gave this five stars and they absolutely love it. So, I do kind of want to go back and give this a try. Um, I know I'm asking you guys a lot in this video, but if you've read this, what did you rate it? Um, if you're unfamiliar with the plot of this, I didn't get very far in, but we are following this um, I believe he's an assassin who ends up falling ill, has this mysterious illness, and the only person that he believes can cure it is this magical I wanted to say the W word and that's not what they are. is a magical person from like a rival magic group and she is in desperate need of funding because she's researching a plague that is spreading. So, she reluctantly agrees and as they're working together, they kind of uncover a bigger secret and it's their romance. So, we will see. I am very curious like where this story goes, but just was not a fan of the writing or the humor. And next up, we have The Never List. This is a wa choose fantasy romance following this girl that ends up sneaking in to some sort of like matching ceremony where these princes are supposed to find their perfect match in order to restore peace to this kingdom. And they end up deciding that she is going to be their perfect match despite the fact that she is not supposed to be in this choosing ceremony. And I think together they have to go through all of these different trials. And I saw on Goodreads someone compared it to Broken Bonds by J Brie, which is one of my favorite wa series of all time. So if it's anything like that, I'm going to love this. I also had one of my close friends read this recently and she doesn't read a ton of wa and she absolutely loved this. So I'm I'm excited. And after I purchased this, I noticed that the inside artwork is so so cool. So, I don't know if you can see, but I'm assuming those are all the guys. So, yeah, this is another book I will definitely be picking up sooner rather than later. Next up is another why choose. So, Psycho Shifters by Jasmine Mass. This is the same author that wrote Blood of Hercules, which is one of my favorite wa and just books overall. The humor in that is so so well done. And I will say this is similar sometimes a little too similar. I feel like these books start off very much the same way and the humor because it is so so similar. Some things felt a little repetitive between this and Blood of Hercules. So that's the only reason I rated it what I did. I think I ended up giving this like 3.75 stars, but it was really fun. So, essentially, we're following Satie, who has had to fight her entire life until one day she finds out that she might be able to fight for her freedom as a shifter. Now, shifters are these people that are able to transform into these powerful beasts. So, she ends up going to this training camp to train to be like an amazing shifter, but everything really goes ary when she's forced to room with three other elite shifters who do not believe she belongs and they try to make her life kind of a living hell until they decide they're actually very interested in her. And it really goes from there. Uh, very very spicy. Know that going in. Not so much with our main character, but it's why choose. and like some of the guys are kind of in their own relationship at the beginning of this. So, there's definitely spicy time in this first book, but the ending of this is a bit of a cliffhanger and I'm very excited to continue. And recently, Shannon Mar's PA reached out and asked if I'd be interested in Neverthorn, which is her newest romanty release, and I said I was very interested. So, apparently this follows a hero or heroine that is in her 30s, which I love finding mature heroins in fantasy romance. I feel like typically most of them are like 19, 20. I'm about to be 35, which I'm not even going to get into that. That in itself, I'm not ready. But anyway, it's nice seeing like my age represented in the books that I read. So, we're following this girl that apparently went to some sort of magical university, but didn't get chosen as a hero. So, she's lived her life kind of away from all of that until she's asked to return for some reason to train and hopefully become a hero along with other magical students. So, it sounds good. I'm very excited. I'm very, very patiently waiting for the audio to drop, but as soon as it does, I will be reading this. And last up, Bloom sent me Full Tilts and Allin by Emma Scott. These are my two favorite books by her and some of the most like emotional contemporary romances you will ever read. I ugly cried during both. They are such amazing amazing reads in this first book. Actually, I'm just going to give you the plot of the first book. The second book, I really don't think there's a way of doing it without any sort of spoilers. So, in Full Tilt, we are following this rock star um and it's this woman that's really living life on the edge. All she is doing is partying to the extent that one day she goes to, I believe, Vegas and wakes up on the couch of a complete stranger. Now, this stranger happens to be a artist, a glass blowing artist that is trying to fulfill his greatest purpose in life before he ends up passing away. So, it's their romance and them both trying to help heal each other. And it is spectacular. Once again, have tissues ready. You will probably cry in one or both of these books, but I just I absolutely love it. So, thank you so much, Bloom and Source Books, for sending these my way. All right, guys. That is it for my fantasy romance book haul. Thank you so much for watching, and please let me know down in the comments below if you have read any of the books I mentioned. I'd also like to say a special thank you to my paladin protectors. One actually just my patrons in general for telling me about K-pop demon hunters. I'm obsessed. I think I've listened to the soundtrack about a hundred times. I'm now buying merch which I I really don't typically do. So, Derpy is my favorite character at the moment from that movie. If you have not seen that movie yet, it is so so good. The music is fabulous. But anyway, thank you to my paladin protectors for supporting my channel. Amanda, Christy, Cat, Lada, Leslie, Nerdy, Spoon, and the Sarah Andrea family. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I said this already, I post new videos every Wednesday and Sunday. And if you haven't yet, please like and subscribe. I will see you all next week. Bye. [Music]
