[1] Most Anticipated Fantasy & Sci-Fi Books Releasing in 2026 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AXDKwHBbqc

I tell myself every year that my TBR is under control. And every single year, new anticipated releases prove me wrong. Regardless, one of my favorite times of the new year is looking at all the anticipated book releases that I know are going to ruin my sleep schedule, the ones I need to make room for on my shelf and and my brain. So, today we're talking about my most anticipated fantasy and sci-fi releases of 2026. From exciting sequels to new standalones to some wild cards that could end up defining my reading year, I'm going to be going month by month talking about the books I'm most excited for. But, of course, let me know in the comments your most anticipated releases of the year. To start off, we're getting a brand new Dresden Files book by Jim Butcher on January 20th, which means it's probably already out by the time this video goes up. You can go read it right now. I love the Dresden Files. I'm not like a diehard fan. I'm not completely caught up in the Dresden Files. It's kind of a series that I like to I like to pick up one of those books in between reading something else. It's kind of been a while, though. I really need to get back into the Dresden Files because I do enjoy this series a lot. I'm going to get caught up eventually, but 12 Moons is definitely an exciting release for diehard fans of the series. And once again, it's releasing on January 20th. And on January 27th, we have probably the most unique titled book in the video, Sister Swangard and the Not Quite Dead by KJ Parker. This is actually an author that I've wanted to read for quite a while now. I've heard really great things about his 16 ways to defend a walled city. I've heard that series is really great. And this new book sounds very interesting as well. So, I'm excited to check it out. This book is about a deadly nun named Sister Sanguard and her priest companion who are sent by the church of the invincible son to quietly eliminate a troubled princess. However, they find a viper's nest of corruption. And as their plans unravel, whispers of the dead returning begins to stir panic, as it does. What starts as a simple assassination spirals into a crisis with worldshaking consequences. It sounds really awesome. Let me know if you've read anything by KJ Parker. Moving over to February, we have Operation Bounce House by Matt Dineman. Yes, the author of Dungeon Crawler, Carl. This is a brand new sci-fi release that isn't related to The Adventures of Princess Donut and Carl. Uh, that's right. This isn't a new dungeon crawler Carl book. I am going to mention something related to that later on, though. This is a brand new book by Matt Dinaman. It's also a sci-fi book. It's not lit RPG from what I gather. It's a completely new story. I'm really excited to read this one. And basically from the synopsis, this book follows a man named Oliver Lewis who's perfectly content taking care of his family's ranch and taking care of the fleet of intelligent agriculture bots that they own, trying to keep them kicking as long as possible. However, a gate has been restored that allows instant travel between his planet, New Sonora, and Earth. However, Earth's government has other plans than peace. His home planet is given an eviction notice by a mega corporation that's turned planetary warfare into a video game. As gamers on Earth remotely pilot custom war machines for entertainment, Oliver and his friends are forced to defend their planet using salvage tech and anything they can. Fighting not just for survival, but for the right to keep the only home they've ever known. This sounds so interesting. And as a huge fan of Dungeon Crawler Carl, I'm really looking forward to reading something else by Matt Dinaman, and I'm excited to see how different it is from Dungeon Crawler Carl, but still looking for that quality that Dinaman brings. Operation Bounce House releases on February 10th. We then have Pretenders to the Throne of God by AdrienChovski. This releases on February 12th and it's the fourth book in his tyrant philosopher series uh which starts with City of Last Chances. I really want to get to this one soon. I've read Surface Model by Adrien Chakovski. I haven't really read anything else, but I have been so curious uh to check out more of his writing. I really want to do that in 2026 because he's an author that has written so so much. I really respect his work ethic and I want to read more by him. This is probably going to be the like next book I read. I'm probably going to start this in February. So, I'm really glad to know that there's a fourth book on the way. Now, if you don't know, this is planned to be a fivebook series. I believe there's three books out now plus a novella, then the fourth book releasing in 2026. I'm excited to get to this. And all I really know about this series is that it has very unique worldb buildinging. It's also kind of creepy and macob in some ways. It's set in a city of magic, bad decisions, and last chances. I've heard the setting is very, very strong in this book. And also, the characters are supposedly very complex. It sounds like a perfect combo to me. And it's kind of a blend of genres. It also delves into just the weird. Uh, and that's I really love when books are kind of experimental with genre blending. So, I'm really excited to get to this. Let me know if you've read anything by Adrien Chikovsky and what you'd recommend. Out of the Ashes by Michael J. Sullivan and Laurian Ellis. This is a brand new book. It's the first book in a series called After the Fall. This one is expected to release on February 19th. Now, sometimes I get a little worried when two authors are working on a book, especially if I've never really heard of that author. And Laurian Ellis hasn't published anything else uh before this. So, you know, it makes me a little bit worried about this. However, I'm very confident in Michael J. Sullivan. So, I'm sure that he wouldn't be working on a project like this if he wasn't also confident in it. So, overall, I guess I'm coming to the conclusion that I'm actually very excited to see a brand new debut author, Laurian Ellis, uh, working with Michael J. Sullivan. I can't wait to see how this book plays out. Um, and also, it does take place in the same world as the Ryeria Chronicles or Rya Chronicles. I always forget how it's pronounced. So, this new series called After the Fall is still set in the world of Alan, and it's taking place after the Rise and Fall series, but before the Rya Chronicles. It's meant to kind of bridge the gap between those two series. And if you haven't read those two yet, then you might want to add them to your TBR in 2026. I need to get to the Rise and Fall series. Uh, Michael J. Sullivan is one of the most fun authors. He knows how to make you have a good time. The characters are so much fun. The dialogue is fantastic. I love the Rya Revelations series. I've been getting into Chronicles as well. I highly recommend reading Michael J. Sullivan. Now, we then have one of the most anticipated novels for me and the sequel to one of the most underrated books on my shelf. Uh, and that is The Cure for the Living by Nicholas Lightsowl. Uh, this is the sequel to Dreams of the Dying. If you haven't read this book, like I said, it's one of the most underrated books on my shelf. It is such a wild, trippy, weird story. Uh, it's like a blend of fantasy and horror, and it's fantastic. I highly recommend Dreams of the Dying. And the sequel, The Cure for the Living, is actually being separated into two different volumes. So, we're technically getting two books releasing uh on February 26th. Even though it's two separate volumes, it's one continuous story. I love the covers for these editions. The cover art is so so good. I thought there was a third book planned as well. I'm I'm not quite sure, but I loved Dreams of the Dying. I'm hoping this will be just as mindbending and dark as that book. Go read it if you haven't. Now switching over to March. On March 17th, we have the release of The Book of Fallen Leaves by AS Tamaki. Now over on Goodreads, this one is described as Shogun meets Game of Thrones and it follows two protagonists during a civil war as they fight for their clan. It sounds awesome and I absolutely love the cover design. And also the title of the book reminds me of that one Billy Talent song, Fallen Leaves, which is a banger and was on repeat for me growing up. Comment below if you've ever listened to that song. Uh, shout out to Billy Talent, I guess. Um, yeah. Anyways, moving on. Releasing on March 19th, we have another book by AdrienChovsky. Like I said, the man writes like a mad man. I feel like he deserves a lot more attention. Uh, this is the fourth book in his Children of Time series, which I've heard a lot about. This book is called Children of Strife. I've heard a lot of praise for his Children of Time series. I think it's like his most well-known series. I'm not too sure. Maybe I need to start that in 2026. Let me know if I should read it. It's called Children of Time. Uh, I know it's like an epic space opera. I but I'm wondering if it involves time travel at all. I'm not too sure. I just finished a playthrough of Chrono Trigger, which is one of my favorite games of all time. So, I I love some some time travel if it can be done well. Let me know if you think I should start reading the Children of Time series this year. And then we have Daughter of Crows by Mark Lawrence. This one releases on March 24th. This is another one that's was one of my most anticipated books releasing this year and I'm so excited. I got sent an ARC copy of it. I already started reading this one and it's off to a very good start. Like this is this is already probably one of my favorite beginnings to a Mark Lawrence book. I'm really excited uh to read more of this. This is the first book in a brand new series by Mark Lawrence called The Kindness Academy. And this is classic grim dark Mark Lawrence. Um, this is described as Squid Game meets John Wick. Let me tell you what it's about. The Academy of Kindness exists to create agents of retribution cast in the image of the Furies known as the kindly ones against whom even the gods hesitate to stand. Each year, a hundred girls are sold to the academy. 10 years later, only three will emerge. The Academyy's halls run with blood. The few that survive its decadel long nightmare have been forged on the sands of the wounded garden. They leave its gates as avatars of vengeance, bound to uphold the oldest of laws. Only the most desperate would sell their child to the kindnesses. But Ru, she sold herself. And now, a lifetime later, a long and bloody lifetime later, just as she has discovered peace, war has been brought to an old woman's doorstep. That was a mistake. In this book, we actually follow an old woman uh as the protagonist at different stages in her life. This is very dark fantasy. It has an academy setting. I love the cover design of this first one. I can't wait to read more. Steel Gods by Richard Swan. This is the sequel to Grave Empire, which I've heard a lot of great things about. I've been very interested in reading Richard Swan. Uh I need to do that this year because he also has written the Empire of the Wolf series, which is set in the same world, but Grave Empire and Steel Gods is set like decades later. It's kind of like a sequel, but you can start with Grave Empire. You don't have to read Empire of the Wolf, but I think I want to. I think I do want to read Empire of the Wolf first before starting this series, but I am very interested. Apparently, this is like Flintlock horror fantasy. And if Christopher Bulman has taught me anything, it's that horror and fantasy can work really, really good together. Let me know if you've read anything by Richard Swan and what you'd recommend because yeah, like I said, he's an author that's been on my radar and I'm hoping to start a series by him this year. But for those of you that enjoyed Grave Empire, Steel Gods releases on March 31st. Moving over to April. On April 7th, we have another sequel to a series. This is A Dance of Burning Blades by MHI Yindi. Uh, this is the sequel to A Song of Legends Lost. Huge thank you to Saga Press for sending me an early copy of this one. I haven't gotten to reading it yet, but I am going to read this very soon because it sounds like something I'd really enjoy. I've heard it be compared to like Final Fantasy in how Final Fantasy we have like summoners. And in this series, in this world, people can invoke the spirits of their ancestors to fight for them. And some of these spirits are very, very dangerous. I've heard a lot of good things about this. I'm excited to get to it. And I'm glad that we have a sequel and we don't have to wait like years and years. And it looks like that was the only book I was excited for in April. I there might be something I'm missing. You guys can let me know if I'm missing some big release. But in May, we have The Lost Contract of Iso by Fonda Lee. Yes, the author of the Green Bone Saga is bringing us a brand new story, a brand new standalone novel that is an epic space opera where corporate samurai fight beneath merciless stars. It sounds like it's at least in part taking place on this planet that's like a frozen wasteland. Listen, you had me at Space Samurai. Is it because I'm obsessed with Cowboy Bebop and Samurai Shampoo and this kind of sounds like a mix of that or is it because everything that Fonde writes is exciting? Probably both of those. I'm excited to get to this one. Let me know if you are as well. We then have Platform Decay by Martha Wells, also releasing on May 5th. This is a brand new novel in the Murderbot Diaries. I love The Murderbot Diaries. I haven't read all the fulllength novels, but I love the novellas. Uh, and I do want to get caught up with it. Releasing on May 12th, we have A Parade of Horribables by Matt Dineman. This is the eighth dungeon crawler Carl book. Another one that's one of the most anticipated books for me this year. And a lot of you are going to be happy to know the audio book also releases on May 12th. Uh, this is a series where I always recommend the audiobooks because Jeff Hayes is one of the best narrators I've ever listened to. Like, he actually makes this series even more entertaining. He adds so much charm to the narration and all the different characters. I would highly recommend listening to the audio books for Dungeon Crawler Carl. And I'm glad this one is releasing the same day that the physical book is. I started reading these or listening to them back in 2023 and I am so glad that finally Dungeon Crawler Carroll is kind of getting the attention it deserves. It's seriously one of the funniest and just most fun times I have had reading or listening. I really can't recommend Dungeon Crawler Carroll enough. It's not going to work for everyone, but for those that it works for, it is so much fun. I still need to read the seventh book, I believe. I don't remember. I'm going to have to get caught up. Anyway, then on May 19th, we have The Tapestry of Fate by Shannon Chakraorti. And this is the sequel to The Adventures of Amina Al Sarafi, which is such a fun nautical book. Um, I love the cover art on both the first book and this sequel. I'm really excited to get to the sequel. Now, I know there were some people that were expecting the sequel to be released a little sooner, and apparently the author actually opened up on Instagram. She had a baby right after this first book was published, and she almost died during the pregnancy and needed to take some time to, you know, recover and everything before diving back into writing, which, wow, that is that's understandable. That sounds awful. I'm really glad to see that she is doing well now. she's fully recovered. So, I'm glad that she took that time off from writing. I'm really excited to dive into the sequel, The Tapestry of Fate, which releases on May 19th. On June 2nd, we have The Unicorn Hunters by Catherine Arden. Now, I was very impressed by the Winter Night Trilogy by Katherine Arden. She is such a beautiful writer. This book is about a young duchess whose kingdom has already been conquered on paper and is about to be erased in reality. Unless she can outmaneuver emperors, courts, and magic itself. To avoid a forced marriage that would annex her homeland, she secretly binds herself to her enemy's enemy and leads her court into a legendary forest under the guise of a unicorn hunt. What starts as a political defiance turns into something far stranger when myth proves real and Anne is pulled into a world where magic, sovereignty, and survival collide and where saving her country may cost her everything. We then have Songs of the Dead by Brandon Sanderson and Peter Orurullian. Uh this one releases on June 16th. This is book one in The Stratawa Wars. Uh, this isn't attached to Brandon Sanderson's Cosmir. It's completely its own new thing. I'm very interested in this. I'm kind of hesitantly interested, but it does sound very intriguing to me. Basically, from the synopsis, it follows a London rocker who's faced with a life ordeath choice when he realizes that a powerful society of magic wielders are the only ones keeping London safe. When Jack Solomon is killed, he awakes in a new reality where light and music create magic, where living eras of the past sprawl beneath modern London. Layer upon layer, all through recorded history. But many of those who reside in the past are angry with the present world. All of history is at stake with the Strata Wars. Like I said, it has a very interesting concept. I'm excited to see how this one plays out. Uh, it kind of is reminding me of like Brutal Legend mixed with Neverear. I'll definitely have to update you guys on my thoughts once I read it. Moving to July. I have nothing written for July, so let me know if I'm missing an important release. A Trade of Blood by Robert Jackson Bennett releases on August 11th. Uh, this is book three in The Shadow of the Leviathan. I have heard so many good things about The Tainted Cup and A Drop of Corruption. These books I'm going to get to in 2026. I actually want to start these pretty soon because they're very high up on my TBR. I was going to wait for the trilogy to be completed before starting this series, but apparently it isn't a trilogy anymore. I think the author the author is intending to write more books, so I'm not quite sure how long this series is going to be, but I've heard enough good things that I think I should just dive in and give these books a read now. All I really know about this series is that it's a blend of murder, mystery, and fantasy, and people love it. I'm excited to read these ones. We then have The Truth by Ryan Cahill. This is the final novella in The Bound and the Broken. The Bound and the Broken has been getting so much praise. This is another series I haven't read yet. I really need to dive into this series. I have heard that all of his novellas are very good. Like, you don't want to skip the novellas. I'm excited to dive into The Bound and the Broken at some point. I know this is one that a lot of people are excited for. So, if you are, The Truth releases on August 31st. The Infinite State by Richard Swan. Yes, we have another Richard Swan book releasing in 2026. And this one, again, you likely know this author from Empire of the Wolf and Grave Empire, but now he's written a brand new book that is a space opera, and it sounds very, very interesting. Uh, it begins kind of at a flash point in the lives of a widowed party member, a disgraced investigator, and a hypers sled pilot, all entangled in a plot to escape the suffocating authority of a fascist state. This is an exploration of survival as well as totalitarianism. Like I said, I'm wanting to read Richard Swan this year. So, either I could start with a sci-fi space opera or one of his fantasy series. I'll have to decide. Moving over to September. This month, we're getting a brand new John Gwyn book. Uh, it doesn't have an exact release date, but it is coming out in September. This is The Wolves of War, the first book in a new series called Wisdom of Wolves. And if John Gwyn has taught me anything, it's that I'm always excited for a new book by him. Because John Gwyn is quickly becoming a new favorite author of mine. I love The Faithful and the Fallen. I really need to dive into some more series by him. He's kind of become an autoby author for me just because of how much I enjoyed The Faithful and the Fallen. So, I really want to dive into more of his books this year, and I can't wait to read his new series. On October 6th, we have The Splintered Sun by Tad Williams. Another book set in the world of Austin Ard. Tad Williams is an absolute legend. I am a huge fan of Memory, Sorrow, and Thor. It's one of my favorite series of all time. I still need to read the sequel series called The Last King of Austin Ard. I've heard multiple people say they enjoyed it even more than memory Soro and Thor, which is very promising. Uh, the world of Austin Ard is one of the most beautiful fantasy worlds created. There is so much depth there. It's one of my favorite worlds that I've read and I'm excited that Tad Williams isn't done with it yet. He's still writing in this world. and The Splintered Sun. It says it's a great adventure for newcomers to this world while also delving into previously unrevealed history taking place preag Bone Chair. Once I get caught up with Tad Williams, I definitely need to get to this one. I love the title. Tad Williams, his writing is so beautiful. I love to take my time with his books, so I'm not necessarily in a rush, but I am going to get to this at some point. And I'm also wanting to read some other series by Tad Williams. The TBR never ends. There's so many books I need to read. Set to release on October 13th is The Thricebound Fool by Christopher Bulman. I love that title. Uh this is the sequel to The Black Tongue Thief. Uh there's also, if you didn't know, there's also the prequel, The Daughter's War. Both of these are so good. Highly recommend reading these books. I have been very much looking forward to the sequel to Black Tongue. Christopher Bjman is a favorite author of mine. I really love this series. I also love Between Two Fires. And honestly, he's one of those authors where I just think he deserves so much more praise than he gets. He's got some of the most engaging pros that I have read in a long time. And if you haven't read Black Tongue, you definitely need to read this series this year. I'm so excited to read The Thricebound Fool. And thankfully, I usually like to read something a little bit creepy in October and the Black Tongue Thief series. I mean, Christopher Bulman implements a little bit of horror into his fantasy and it works so well. Uh, so this is going to be the perfect read. Now, another author that is known for writing horror is Joe Hill. And on October 13th or the 20th, it's not exactly clear online, Joe Hill has a new book coming out called Hunger. Now, for those of you that don't know, Joe Hill is Stephen King's son, and he's a fantastic writer in his own right. At least I've heard. Uh I'm still kind of new to diving into Stephen King. I've got a lot of King books on my TBR this year, but I love The Stand. I love The Shining. Uh, and I'm very excited to read something by Joe Hill as well. I've actually been hearing a lot of good things about his books. And Hunger sounds very interesting. This book is about a starving, frostbitten city during the winter of 1776 where British troops trapped behind enemy lines face something worse than rebellion. A ravenous ghost offering lavish feasts in exchange for their souls. As soldiers begin dying in grotesque ways, Captain Amos Crowe is ordered to stop the supernatural threat by any means necessary, even as he's haunted by the voices of the dead himself. So, this sounds like a brutal, eerie tale of the American Revolution told by the losing side. If that synopsis didn't gain your interest, I don't really know what will. Now, we're going to skip over November. I couldn't really find anything that I'm that excited for in November. Again, correct me if I'm wrong. Maybe I'm just missing some. Uh, but in December, we have well, we believe that The Fires of December by Brandon Sanderson is going to release. I know this book is coming in 2026. Uh, it actually has a crowdfunding campaign on Backerkit that's starting in March of 2026. So, if you want to get the book early, then you can sign up for the backer kit. However, the commercial release of The Fires of December is expected to be in late 2026. I would assume it's coming out in December. I mean, it's in the title. For those of you that don't know, this is another secret project by Brandon Sanderson. Uh, it's one of his cosmir standalone novellas. For those that didn't see, I made a whole video on this, but he read a chapter of it at Dragon Steel 2025, and I'm already super excited for this book. It sounds like the best start to one of his secret projects so far. It's also kind of meant to be like a spiritual successor to Tress of the Emerald Sea. It doesn't have it doesn't take place on that planet or anything, but it just kind of has the same type of vibe to it. It's kind of an adventure story, but it sounds like it's a little bit darker than Tress. I am very excited to get to this one. And now I'm going to cover a few books that don't have release dates yet, but they are expected to release in 2026. Starting off with the big one, my most anticipated book of the year is Red God by Pierce Brown. This is the final book in the Red Rising series. Now, I have only read the original Red Rising trilogy. I need to start on Iron Gold very soon, but that those first three books have jumped their way into my favorites list. I love this series. It goes in so many crazy directions that I wasn't expecting. For those of you that don't know, Red Rising, the first book, uh it is kind of like The Hunger Games, but more sci-fi. Uh, and that's either gonna be exciting to you or maybe you're not that interested in reading another Hunger Games story. Let me just say that it's done incredibly well and also there's still so much more to it. It's not just the Hunger Games. And the second book is where the series completely becomes its own thing. It becomes this big epic space opera and it is so much fun. Uh, I have not read an author that writes so relentlessly as Pierce Brown. There is a non-stop pacing and action to this series while also still having so much depth to it as well. I love Red Rising. I'm so excited to read more. And Pice Brown has said that he's going to write more in this universe, but in a different medium. Now, I'm not sure what he means by that. This could be a TV show. It could be a comic adaptation. Let me know what you think he means or what you want to see for Red Rising. It definitely deserves an adaptation. Another book without a release date is Alto the 9th. Uh this is the upcoming fourth and presumably the last book in the Locked Tomb series by Tamson Mure. Uh this is expected to release in 2026. I haven't read the others yet. I've heard so many so much praise. I should probably read the Locked Tomb series. I have so much on my TBR, but I have heard such good things about this series. So, I did want to mention it because I know a lot of you are probably excited for this one. And there we have my most anticipated fantasy and sci-fi releases of the year. I think I did have one horror novel in there as well. Let me know all of your most anticipated releases down in the comments. Uh maybe there's some that I missed that need to be on this list, but I hope that many of you are going to be adding some of these books to your TBR this year. Uh that's it for this video. A huge thank you to everyone who supports the channel and makes these videos possible.
