[1] Best Science Fiction Published in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHFCJyOl_YY

Today I'm here to talk about the top eight science fiction books that I read that were published in 2025. This is part of my end of the year series. I do have a playlist linked down below if you want to check out more videos like this. And do consider subscribing if you enjoy a lot of new release content, especially at year end like this. I have some great books to talk about, a lot of variety. Science fiction books for those that love the genre. Science fiction books for those that are just getting into it or maybe don't normally even pick up the genre. Trust me, I have some for everyone. And I'm really excited to talk about it all. So, let's get started. First, at number eight, we have Final Orbit by Chris Hadfield. And this is a book that is authored by a well-known and renowned Canadian astronaut who has taken to writing fiction. This is technically the third book in a companion series, but it is an excellent place to start because quite frankly, this book gave me the feelings and enjoyment I was looking for in his previous fictional works. And finally, it hit the mark with this one. This is set in the 1970s and is very much giving nods to actual history of the space program. And because the author again has the experience in the space program, he's tying in his own details in terms of how astronaut life works and giving as many details and nods as possible, but then at the same time giving you this high octane thriller plot where you have espionage. You have characters that have to puzzle together what is happening with the space program. The story starts out with the space program going back out for another Apollo mission, but something goes wrong. And of course, the story goes on from there. I just found this one to be very entertaining, but at the same time, again, I felt like I learned little pieces and nuggets about astronaut life that I didn't otherwise know despite reading a lot of books set in this general subgenre just because I find it really fascinating. Again, it is technically historical rather than being far and futuristic. So, I do think this book is really accessible to those that are less familiar or comfortable with really mindbending ideas that come into science fiction. I think it's again great for someone newer to the genre. While it has a hard science fiction moments to it, again, it's told in a very accessible way, Chris Hadfield, I think, is very good at explaining these concepts in a way that really will appeal and be understandable to a common lay person like myself. So, highly recommend this one. Had a lot of fun with it. really entertaining and I think a lot of you will enjoy it as well. Then at number seven, we have Dark Prophet by Wick Welker, which is the second book in the Dark Law series. And this is a chunky sci fantasy book that in the first book involves this artificial intelligence at the start of the story who's trying to find his maker. And very much the plot has progressed quite a bit. It's a story that very much is character-driven. You have a lot of good banter and back and forth between the individuals that are traveling together, their shared quest and mission as they are pulled into this bigger story. It's just a really easy series to fly through. The first book is incredibly large. The second book here is a little bit less so. But don't be scared by the size because these books are again really digestible. Again, ones that I'd recommend to people perhaps that come more from fantasy because it is more about the epic quest rather than diving and getting lost in the weeds of some really technical science fiction concepts. So, I really enjoyed this one. I think a lot of you will as well. And again, you do want to start back at the beginning with the first book, but I do recommend continuing on to this one, the new release. That was fantastic. Then at number six, we have All the Waters of the World by Aaron Coughel. And this is one where we follow a family in this post-apocalyptic setting. At the beginning of the story, they need to protect these items where they are living in this museum. And very much the story has conversations about how we might protect and save the remnants of humanity if such an event were to happen. It's a very close family and character oriented story. Again, very much having that little bit of a literary feel to it. It's slowm moving and thoughtful and I really enjoyed it. I think it has similar feels to something like Station 11 if you enjoyed that one. and this is a similar one that has again that same kind of tone to it. So, highly recommend this one. I think that it was a little bit of a sleeper of the year and definitely deserves more attention. Then at number five, we have The Folded Sky by Elizabeth Bear, which is a companion story within the Whitespace universe, but you can definitely jump into this book without reading the previous ones because again, all the books involve different characters with a different plot. It's just set in the same universe with the same travel mechanics when it comes to space travel. And so within this one, we follow an individual who's been tasked with trying to protect and analyze this ancient artificial intelligence that has been found that belong to another alien race. However, there's a lot of controversy around that. And so it then involves protecting these historical assets and the story goes on from there. In my mind, as I talked about this book recently, it's just a really good balance of having a great plot, really interesting world building in the background. You can tell the author has a love for science fiction as the elements that I love are woven throughout the story. It doesn't feel superficial in terms of the technology and references, but rather something that is well thought out and woven organically into the story itself. And again, it has a plot and characters for those of you that are looking for that to have that balance in the narrative. So, it is not sacrificing one element of the story for another. Highly recommend. I think she's a really talented storyteller. Then at number four, we have Shroud by Adrien Chakovski. And this is a highly entertaining science fiction story that involves this planet area known as the Shroud that is dark and inhabitable and hence no one should ever ever go there. However, of course, as the story would happen, there are individuals that end up through an emergency landing going to the shroud and the story goes on from there. I think at this point, Adrian Shakoski has earned his own name as again an author who is both prolific without sacrificing the quality of his work. So again, you have these really interesting science fiction concepts woven through in the story, but at the same time, you have again deep characters, great banter, back and forth, exciting plot, suspense, and again, you're going to care deeply for the characters and what happens to them. So this book again is one that kind of has it all that really hits that right balance of being a really enjoyable science fiction story that does have some wider appeal to those that don't normally read a lot of the genre or don't read very deeply into it. I do think it's one of his most successful books. If you enjoy something like Alien Clay, this is a great one to follow up because in terms of tone, style, plotting, all of that. It's its own story. It's not related, but I think it's a great followup because again, I think it will appeal to the same type of science fiction readers. Then at number three, we have Shadows Upon Time by Christopher Rockio, the seventh and final book in the Suneater series. Now, I will not say any spoilers. I have done a full video review for the book. And I've previously done a series review for the earlier books. So, I will say that if you enjoyed this series, you do want to continue on finish out this book, which I thought was consistent in terms of the quality of what you'll expect from the previous ones. Again, if you want to know more, check out that video. But I will say that I enjoyed this one. For some people, it might be a shock or a disappointment that it's not number one on my list, but simply again, it comes down to taste. It was a four-st star read for me, which is consistent with my experience with the previous books. For other people, it likely will be their favorite book of the year. And again, it just depends what you're looking for, what you expect, but I do think it's a solid conclusion and definitely earns a place among my favorites of the year. At number two is Atmosphere by Taylor Jenkins Reed. And this is an incredibly soft science fiction story with heavy romance elements. So, if you were here for the hard science fiction within this video, this one might not be for you. If you are watching this video and you don't read a lot of science fiction, this one might be up your alley because it's definitely a left field choice for the year. But if I'm honest, I really enjoyed this one, largely based off my general enjoyment of this author's previous work. So, this one is a historical piece that is following the history of the astronaut program as they're starting to introduce and have more women in the program. You have the story told from one woman's perspective and within the story it becomes revealed that she does have romantic feelings for another female astronaut in training and so they are trying to hide their relationship at a time where it's not very appropriate in such a public manner to be open about it. So you have them again training the mission that they are going to be sent on potentially and then also grappling with the day-to-day life of having a romantic partner or having romantic feelings for someone. And so again, if you're someone who does not like romance in your science fiction books, this one will absolutely not be for you. I'm usually hit or miss when it comes to romance, but I personally like the way that this author writes human relationships and the fact that they have this book again set around the space program. It felt like a very loose nod to things like the Lady Astronaut series. So, if you enjoy that character-driven science fiction story, this one is kind of a nice follow-up, even though, again, it's less technical and more a looser retelling of a potential history woven through the lens of these women. So, again, not for everyone. I recognize it's a little bit out of the box to even put this book on this list since a lot of you will probably argue in the comments that it doesn't deserve the label of science fiction at all. I'm putting it here just because it was one of my absolute favorite books of the year. highly emotional. I love this book and really hit me at a personal level. So, I do think it is worth a read if it's up your alley, if it sounds like something you would enjoy. In a lot of ways, it could have been my favorite science fiction book of the year. But, I'm going to try to be a little bit objective here and put in the number two spot because I do think the next book I'm about to talk about is technically a better book, even if this one hit me on a more emotional level. And so that leads to the number one pick which is Volatile Memory by Seth Haden. And this is a short science fiction novella. So do be aware of the length if you're going to go and pick up and purchase this one. But as a story, I thought it was one of the smartest, most intelligent science fiction books I read this year. It follows this ship that has this artificial intelligence that is largely shaped by an actual human experience. However, that memory is not supposed to exist. However, in this case, it does. So you have this artificial intelligence with this piece of what appears to be humanity grappling with that. There is a little bit of a romance or sappic interest woven within the story. So be aware of that element. I will say that this book appealed to me for the same reasons that I love Ancillary Justice by Ann Lucky. So largely shape your interest in reading this one based off how much you enjoyed that series because again it deals with really similar topics in terms of personhood and what it means to be alive and again of course putting the idea of kind of putting memory or thought into a machine and what ramifications or implications that might have. So again, a short story, but often I really like nollas because again when they are effective, they tend to get in, get out. There is no fat, nothing I would cut from the story. And they tend to leave a pretty big punch, punching well over their weight for the number of pages they have. And again, this book I read quite early in the year, but it still is one that stuck with me and been the comparison that every other science fiction book that has come after has had to contend with. So in my mind, highly recommend if you share my interest in these type of stories. So that's it for this video here. here. I'd love to know of the books I talked about, which ones are you planning on checking out, and of course, if I missed one of your favorite 2025 science fiction releases, please recommend it down in the comments. I will definitely go check it out. And hopefully, you're having a good year end. Again, don't forget to subscribe, follow up with my playlist if you want to see more end of the year content from me, and again, hit the little notification bell if you want more content, hit the thumbs up if I deserved it, drop a comment, even just an emoji to let me know you're here. Otherwise, I will hopefully talk to you again soon. Okay, bye-bye. [music] [music] [music]
