[1] The 10 Best Books I Read in 2025 🏆 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vUS7ebBiqGs

I finished 125 books this year and this might 
have been one of my best reading years yet despite being a very difficult year for me personally. 
It was a very good year for reading. I read so many incredible books, added many new favorites to 
my collection, discovered new authors to love and gave out five stars like candy on Halloween. 
And therefore, as a very indecisive person, I struggled so so much to put together a list of 
my top 10 favorite books of the year. If you want to watch some of that struggle, if you want to 
experience the indecision and the many repeated size of pain, check out my book bracket video. 
That is the process I use in my reading journal to determine my favorite book of the year. And it 
was a struggle as as it always is. While in that video, I listed my 12 favorites. For this video, 
I'm only going to highlight 10 for consistency sake because I also have a 10 most disappointing 
reads of the year and 10 worst reads of the year. So, check out those videos. They'll be linked 
in the description box. If you want to know my other two favorites that didn't quite make this 
top 10 list, check out my book bracket video. You'll find them there. Without further ado, in no 
particular order, until we get to the top three, these are the 10 best books I read in 2025. 
Starting by turning back time all the way to the beginning of this year where I read not only the 
first graphic novel in a series of graphic novels, but all five volumes that were already released 
for my Goodreads Choice Awards winners video that I do every year and I fell in love. This 
was Heartstoppper by Alice Ozman and I did not expect to love this so much. I had heard it was 
heartwarming. I knew people loved it. I knew people were so attached to these characters that 
this story meant so much to them. But I can't lie, I kind of felt like I missed the boat, that I 
was too old to enjoy it coming into it in my 30s. And I'm just not generally a graphic novel 
reader. I read them occasionally here and there, but they're definitely not my preferred medium. 
So, I put off reading the series for a long time, even though I'd heard rumblings, more than 
rumblings about how great it was. But because volume five won for the Good Reads Choice Awards, 
I picked it up and read all four volumes before it so I would have context. And I I fell in love. 
I cried so many times. I was totally swept up in these characters in this story. And I felt so 
seen in a way that I did not expect. It was like it healed something in my inner child, the young 
me who didn't know that other people felt the way I did. I wish I'd had this when I was that age. I 
am so glad that kids now have these graphic novels to read. I just feel like it's such a beautiful 
series. It has so much to give, exhibits so much vulnerability and has so much heart and even 
as an adult, it healed something in me and for that I will forever be grateful. I think this is 
just such a gorgeous series. They're very quick to read. There's so much varied representation 
amongst the whole cast of characters. They're all extremely lovable. If you enjoy contemporary 
YA fiction, if you are interested in coming out stories in stories of self-discovery and 
coming of age and family, both found family and, you know, your family of origin and belonging and 
understanding and love and resilience and support through some really difficult experiences and 
seasons of life. I highly recommend these graphic novels. They made me cry an embarrassing number 
of times. Actually, no, not embarrassing because it's not embarrassing to cry. Crying is good. 
But I cried a lot. I felt a lot. I loved these. Each volume got five stars and they deserve to 
be on my top 10 favorites of the year. Just so heartwarming. And now for something ridiculously 
different. Pet Cemetery by Stephven King. This is a classic horror novel. Many people are already 
familiar with Pet Cemetery and its story, but I will not be spoiling it for you today. And if you 
told me a year or two ago that I'd be putting one of Stephen King's novels on my top 10 of the year, 
I would not have believed you. But here we are. In this novel, we're following our protagonist who is 
a father of a young family. He has two children, and he and his wife and his kids and their 
cat move to a new town so that he can work as a doctor at a local university. And when they 
arrive, they're warned about the danger of the street they live on and also not to venture too 
far into the cemetery on the hill behind their house that it's just not a good idea to wander too 
far or to let your kids or pets run free. I won't say anything else because I don't want to spoil it 
for you, but this is such a devastating book about grief. I was horrified. I could not look away. I 
was so immersed. I knew what was coming and yet I couldn't stop. And this book managed to lull 
me into several false senses of security despite being pretty sure of what was to come. I kept 
hoping for a different outcome and that allowed me to be even more devastated when various events 
took place. This is such a heart-wrenching novel. It's a novel that Stephen King wrote based on his 
own greatest fears as a person, as a human being, and a fear that I think a lot of us share and 
a level of desperation and devastation that can only come from a few select circumstances. 
And this idea of what crimes would we be willing to commit? What would we do? how low would we 
stoop to protect the people we love most? And it broke me into a million pieces. I think even if 
you're not generally a horror reader, you could get something out of this. I will literally never 
forget the experience of reading this book. And I will never forget a number of scenes that take 
place and how viscerally I felt them in my body, in my soul as I was reading. This came at just 
the right time into my life as I was very deep in grief and it expressed a lot of things that I 
was feeling in just the way I needed. But it also hurt so much to read and was very upsetting. 
I would definitely caution you to check out the content warnings before you pick this one 
up. Though they could be considered spoilers, but there is some really upsetting content in 
here. So, I just want people to be warned. I don't want anyone to traumatize themselves picking 
this up on my recommendation. I will be forever changed from the experience of reading this. And 
I understand why Stephen King said this was the scariest novel he's ever written and also the one 
novel he never meant to never wanted to publish. It is horrifying in the most true sense of the 
word. I read this as part of a horror Halloween reading vlog, so you can check that out for a 
much longer review, including very clearly marked skippable spoiler sections if you want to hear 
my thoughts on all the events of the novel and the ending. I share all of that. But I'll never 
be the same and I'll never forget this experience and I'm getting stressed just talking about it. 
So, I'm going to move on. But, five stars. By far the best Stephen King I've ever read and I will 
probably never read it again. So, there's that. Next up, I want to share a standalone fantasy 
that I read near the beginning of this year and really fell in love with. Blood Over Bright Haven 
by ML Wong. This is a book that kind of took the bookish internet by storm, took fantasy spaces by 
storm, and I understand why I really loved this. Our protagonist, Siona, is the first woman in 
this society to be accepted into this prestigious magical order. And she is really focused on 
making progress, being the first woman to achieve a variety of things, carving a space for 
herself, finding success as a magic practitioner. And I think the reason why this book has been, 
while it's been very popular, it has also been quite controversial, quite polarizing. And I think 
that is because of Siona. She is the epitome of a white feminist. She is not likable. She is not a 
good person. She is much more focused on her own success and is happy to step on anyone, including 
every other woman on the planet, if she needs to, to be respected and to get what she wants. And 
you're definitely not meant to like her. But I can understand why people struggle to read from 
her perspective. What I really loved about this, outside of the impeccable world building 
and the fascinating and unique magic system, were the themes that were being explored. This 
is a book that uses its characters, including it's very unlikable, very, very, very flawed, bad 
person of a main character to explore colonization and objectification of indigenous peoples, the 
commodification of their lives, their bodies, their culture, to prop up the colonizers, to make 
the lives of the colonizers more comfortable while oppressing the original inhabitants of the land. 
And this is, of course, a tale as old as time. It has been repeated on so many continents in 
so many places in the world. And that is really what this book is exploring. And it's using the 
fact that it is speculative fiction to allow us to take a look at this problem, at this situation 
with new eyes, with a fresh perspective. And we're looking at it through Siona, who is completely 
oblivious to the problems in her society outside of the ones that directly affect her, hence 
the white feminism. But she comes to learn more about how her society is structured and the 
inherent structural inequalities of her society that have given her the opportunities she's had, 
however few. And we get to watch her reckon with that. And we get to witness whether or not she's 
going to allow her worldview to be shifted in an absolutely fundamental way as she is faced with 
this overwhelming cognitive dissonance. And it is so impeccably done. Do I think that this is 
an absolutely perfect book with no opportunity for critique? No. But I do think this is the 
best examination, the most accurate portrayal of cognitive dissonance and worldview shifting 
realizations that I have ever read in a book. I think the way that this explores its themes is 
very well done and I think the characters are very well portrayed whether you love them or hate them. 
So that is Blood Over Bright Haven by ML Wong. I thought it was fantastic. Five stars. definitely 
the top of my list for fantasy reads this year and I would highly recommend it if you haven't 
checked it out and you're a fan of fantasy. Next up is contemporary fiction and this was one of 
our book club picks for this year for my book club over on Patreon and this was Woodworking 
by Emily St. James. This is a delayed coming of age story for our protagonist who is a transwoman 
who is only realizing fully understanding herself and her gender now in her 30s. And she is going 
through this second puberty and trying to find community and trying to understand herself and 
rearrange the relationships in her life and figure out how she can exist as herself. Can she be out 
within this small town environment that is very conservativeleaning? And as a teacher at the local 
high school, she is extra cautious about anyone discovering her true identity until she meets a 
new student who has transferred to her school, who is the first openly trans student they've had at 
their school. And she reaches out to the student in an appeal for connection, for a mentor on this 
journey, for understanding and community. And they develop a relationship that is pushing boundaries 
of what a teacher student relationship should be. a completely platonic relationship, but still not 
a healthy relationship with proper boundaries and with certain power dynamics at play. And I 
just thought this was such a well done book for so many reasons. I thought it was beautifully 
written. I thought the characterization was top tier. It was incredible. I felt so connected to 
all of the characters, including side characters that get very little page time. I generally don't 
find contemporary fiction to be as engrossing as other genres. I usually tend to read it a little 
slower. I'm maybe not as deeply immersed in it, but this was a book that I could not put down. I 
was so invested. I needed to know what was going to happen to all these characters. I needed to 
know how they were going to resolve their various conflicts and challenges in their lives. There 
were so many layers that were peeled back over the course of the novel, and every layer felt 
more and more raw and vulnerable. coming from an author who had a very similar experience to her 
protagonist of coming out as trans much later in life and trying to figure out how to rearrange 
your life to fit the person you always were but didn't quite know it yet. All the characters are 
deeply flawed and make a lot of mistakes, but that makes them feel even more real. And I just felt 
so moved by this book. I loved it so much. Very easily gave it five stars. And I think we had one 
of our best, most engaging and fascinating book club discussions of the entire year in discussing 
this book. And I just thought it was incredibly well done. Five stars. And I would love, love, 
love to read more from Emily St. James. Next up is another horror novel I read for my Halloween 
reading vlog. And that is Bat Eater and Other Names for Corzang by Kylie Lee Baker. This is 
a pandemic story. It's exploring the experience of being an Asian-American, specifically 
for our protagonist, a mixed race Chinese American during the pandemic and the rising 
and horrific instances of racism, xenophobia, and hate crimes towards Asian-Americans during the 
COVID pandemic. And I just found this to be such a moving and devastating and all-encompassing 
experience. I felt so drawn into the story and into Kora's experience that I felt like I couldn't 
come up for air until it was over. This has both the real life horror of hate crimes and violent 
racism for us to contend with, but also has this speculative supernatural element of horror that 
maybe leans more into traditional horror tropes. And I felt that they were so perfectly married 
together to create this really eerie, unsettling, and overall oppressive atmosphere through the 
entire novel that really brings you into this experience as a reader. I found it completely 
devastating and heartbreaking. I was so attached to these characters and there were so many moments 
that I felt a devastating need to reach into the book and pull them out into safety. And it's just 
one of those books that make it very difficult to maintain that line between reality and fiction. 
You feel that these characters are real and you feel that what's happening is real in the most 
vivid and immersive way. And I just felt that this was incredibly well done. It's fast-paced. 
It's immersive. It's exciting. The characters are deeply lovable and yet complex and flawed. The 
emotions portrayed on the page feel so grounded and real despite the more speculative elements of 
the horror here and its examination of its themes was so deeply effective. If you ever read any 
horror and you haven't read Bad Eater and Other Names for Corzang, please run Don't Walk. Read 
this book. Five stars. Incredible. Absolutely devastating and I loved it. Next up with another 
shift in genre, we have a modern classic. This is The Waves by Virginia Wolf. This was my 
first time reading any Virginia Wolf and wow, what an experience. I should probably preface this 
review by admitting that I am unapologetically a weird lit girly. I love experimental fiction. I 
love when authors try something new. I love when they step outside the box and play with form, play 
with the rules, or throw them out entirely. And this is a novel that is hard to even call a novel. 
It is in some ways a very long poem. It is very repetitive but intentionally so to draw you into 
the experiences of these characters and to evoke this feeling this atmospheric sense of the waves 
crashing against the shore incessantly without end. It is beautifully written. The the pros is 
just absolutely gorgeous. I felt like I was in a trance the entire time I was reading this. And I 
did start this as an audiobook. I read this for my experimental fiction reading vlog earlier in the 
year. And I ended up starting over with the ebook and doing both at the same time so I could really 
fully immerse myself in the experience and really follow what was happening. And I just think that 
was absolutely the best way to experience this novel. Kind of like some of the other books on 
this list. I don't think I took a deep breath the entire time I read this. I don't think I 
paused for longer than 5 minutes to quickly grab a snack the entire time I was reading this. 
This is at its heart a story about grief, but it's also a character study of each of these friends 
who have known each other from a very young age, and they've experienced a loss together, but 
they all process that loss and integrate it into themselves and move forward in different 
ways. And we get to watch them go on their own journeys and reconnect and separate and come back 
together in a variety of ways and combinations over the course of the novel. And each character 
has their own interests, their own personalities and their own journey. And yet there is this sense 
that they are a chorus, that they are in some ways all an aspect of or a facet of a single character 
or a single person. And there's very much a sense of performance art to this. It feels like a 
play and also like a poem as well as being a novel. Like I said, it's very experimental, very 
much playing with form. It is such a gorgeous, scrumptious experience just on a language level, 
on a sentence level, but also an overwhelming and confronting and devastating to overuse that word 
in this video. I feel like every top 10 books of the year video I've ever made, I probably say 
devastating a ridiculous number of times, but I guess that's what I value in my favorite books. 
But devastating exploration of grief, loss, and love in its many forms. And all of it is tied to 
that imagery, to that metaphor of the waves. And it's stunning. I can't believe I waited this long 
to read any Virginia Wolf. I absolutely adored it. and I will be rereading this, but also reading 
everything else that Virginia Wolf ever wrote. So, highly recommend. Five stars for The Waves. Next 
up is some Canadian historical fiction. Indian Horse by Richard Wagamse. I read this in the 
summer and it was the first of a few books that I ended up reading over the next couple months 
that were exploring experiences of indigenous children in residential schools or touching on 
residential schools as a theme. And this book was, you guessed it, absolutely devastating. I 
don't think it's possible to write a book about residential schools without it being devastating. 
It was such a horrific system. It was so wrong on every possible level. And it ruined lives, not 
only for those who experienced it firsthand, but also the generations to follow. It is a deep 
stain on Canadian history. And it is something that I have made it a point to not only read about 
and learn more about, but also to talk about on the internet because I think I underestimated how 
little people outside of Canada or the US might know about these very deeply racist genocidal 
systems that were in place in the early history of our countries here in North America. And 
that lasted much longer than you would expect. The final residential school in Canada was closed, 
I believe, in the 1960s. And this is a system that was deeply abusive and traumatic for the children 
who experienced it. And like I said, has created a generational trauma that endures to this day. This 
book is written in a relatively straightforward manner, but what really got to me was the 
character work here. Our protagonist is one that you just immediately feel connected to. We get to 
follow him through so much of his life and really get to understand him as a person as his history 
and his experiences are slowly peeled back. This novel deals so much with memory, grief, trauma, 
and the power of stories and finding a place where you belong and finding a way to heal, to move 
forward, to find the strength, the resilience to move forward after such horrific abuse. It 
is a very very difficult book to read and very upsetting to read. The content is just inherently 
horrific, but it is also very beautifully done. There is a sense of hope and possibility here and 
I just felt so attached to Saul, our protagonist. I will never forget reading this. This has made 
an imprint on my heart and I would recommend it. As incredibly difficult as it is to read, it is 
life-changing. And now we've come to my top three favorite reads of the year. Starting with Sula by 
Tony Morrison. This was my first time reading Tony Morrison. This was a book club pick for my book 
club over on Patreon. And wow, this is another book that I would describe as life-changing. 
This is a book that I will 100% be rereading at some point in my life and is the start of my 
journey in reading everything that Tony Morrison ever wrote. But I will need a few years to recover 
before I dive into this again because this was, you guessed it, devastating. It was also haunting 
and confronting and visceral in a way that is so hard to achieve. These characters, once again, 
were deeply flawed and layered. They were messy and frustrating as hell at times, but they also 
felt so deeply real. and their relationships, their connections to each other felt completely 
real. This is one of those books where you read it and it's it feels impossible to reckon with 
the fact that these characters are not real people and never really existed because they feel 
so vivid the way that they jump off the page. You experience their lives on such a deep level that 
you can't quite make sense of the fact that they could have been made up out of thin air. Tony 
Morrison's writing skill is gorgeous and on full display here. And the themes that are being 
explored of gentrification, womanhood, loneliness, friendship and family, betrayal and belonging, 
trauma and race, and existing in the world, not only as a black person, but as a black woman. 
just so deafly handled. Every single one of these themes, the story as it is told is so deeply 
engrossing and entrancing. You can't look away even from the moments that feel too private, too 
vulnerable, too raw to look at, like you shouldn't be there. You shouldn't be witnessing this moment, 
and yet you can't look away. It is so compelling and devastating and heart-wrenching. And there 
were several moments that felt deeply frustrating. Once again, it's kind of like Bad Eater and 
Other Names for Corzang where as a reader, you just want to reach in and fix it. You want 
to save it. You want to do the thing that the character can't do in that moment. And you're so 
invested in the outcome that you feel that roing energy, that anxiety to fix it somehow. That's how 
I felt reading this. And it is deeply frustrating at times. It is deeply upsetting to watch Sula 
make some of the choices she makes. And yet, it is also in some ways revolutionary to witness 
a character who is so her own person and so unwilling to change herself to shape herself to 
fit the expectations that other people have of her. She is very committed to being who exactly 
who she wants to be and doing exactly what she wants to do. And that is revolutionary. And Sula 
is definitely one of the most completely realized, most effectively drawn, best written characters 
I have ever read about in my entire life. Despite the fact that I wouldn't say necessarily that I 
liked her or agreed with most of the things she did and said, I felt so much that she was a real 
person. And I felt so invested in her life and her choices and her relationships despite struggling 
so much with her as a person. And I just think that it is incredible what Tony Morrison was able 
to do with this character and with this story. It is, like I said, very confronting. Sula herself is 
quite abrasive and yet it is a story that needed to be told and it is told so beautifully and 
it's so immersive and just beautiful and I could go on for ages but if you have not read any Tony 
Morrison or if you have but you have not read Sula please do. Wow, what a book. And there are so many 
other things I could say that would probably be spoilers so I will not but wow just life-changing. 
life-changing. Also in my top three for the year was The Marrow Thieves by Sheree Demoline. This 
book broke me. Okay, this is YA near future slightly speculative fiction. It is reimagining 
Canada where we are post societal collapse or on the edge of societal collapse and a disease that 
has been spreading through the white population of Canada. And they have found a potential cure in 
the indigenous population in their bone marrow. And this is a book, while not directly about 
the residential school system, it does not only reflect that generational trauma I was talking 
about earlier and the reverberating effects over the decades, but it also is essentially a 
reimagining of the residential school system, a slightly shifted version of a residential 
school system that is built on exactly the same foundational idea, which is a dehumanization 
of indigenous people, a lack of respect for their autonomy and personhood. ood right to exist 
and right to their bodies and belongings and livelihoods and lives. And it is such an emotional 
story. I was a bit concerned going into it because it is YA and our protagonist is a teenager 
through the entire novel, but I shouldn't have been worried because this was incredible. This is 
a book that has been incorporated into quite a few curriculums in Canadian schools and it 100% should 
be. I think if you know a teenager in your life, you should definitely recommend this book to them. 
But also, if you're an adult, you will probably still find it just as emotional and overwhelming 
and transformative and once again, broken record, devastating as I did. This book changed me. This 
book broke me. And as mad as I kind of am at this book for putting me through so much pain and 
suffering, I also am grateful to have read it. And I felt so much love and care. And there were so 
many moments in this book that were deeply moving and heartwarming and hopeful despite all of the 
pain and suffering and the bone deep sadness that I felt at various points in this novel. I think 
it is just so beautifully done. It is very well balanced. The pacing is so great. The writing is 
really beautiful. It's quite straightforward for the most part, but it has so many really gorgeous 
moments and passages. And the character work here really stands out. These characters, not just 
our protagonists and not even just our secondary characters, but even some of those tertiary 
characters who only show up from time to time. Their relationships, their motivations, their 
experiences, their sorrows, and their griefs and their histories are so vividly drawn. Absolutely 
heartbreaking and beautiful and gorgeous. And I will hold this in my heart forever. Five stars. 
Beautiful. please read it. And after all that, you might think, how could I possibly have loved 
anything more than all of these books that I've just raved about for this entire time? And I tell 
you, I I don't know. I have a lot of feelings. But we have come to my favorite read of the year, 
and it was a very difficult decision. Again, check out my book bracket video if you want to see the 
process and the struggle that I went through. But my favorite read of the year, my favorite book of 
2025 was Private Rights by Julia Armfield. This is this is an exploration of grief and an exploration 
of existing as a sibling and specifically being a sister with sisters and going through grief 
in your sisterhood. It is also lightly leaning into horror and speculative fiction. It is 
taking place in a near future London that is being flooded due to climate change. And that 
element of the slow flooding or the drowning of the entire world is a metaphor for the grief 
that our protagonists, these three sisters, are experiencing through the loss of their father. 
And I have been a fan of Julie Armfield since I read Our Wives Under the Sea. And I expected 
to like this, but I did not expect it to be so perfectly suited to me as a person and also to my 
experiences this year. Having lost my own father this year and being a sister with a sister, this 
was devastating. This was such a hard read, but it also meant so much to me. It felt time after 
time after time like Julie Armfield was reaching into my brain and my heart and pulling out exactly 
what I was feeling and what I wished I could say but couldn't quite find the words for. This is so 
beautifully written. The atmosphere is oppressive and melancholic and heavy and unsettling and our 
sisters are each one very flawed and traumatized from their childhood experiences. and they're 
all struggling through their life, not only in a world that is slowly sinking, in a world that is 
barely acknowledging the fact that they are living through the apocalypse, but also through the 
personal apocalypse, through the personal upending of their world in losing their father and the 
rearranging of their family and their dynamic in the wake of that loss and what it means for them 
and confronting their traumas and their deeply unhealthy relationships with their father and also 
the ways that they have arranged themselves into this dysfunctional dynamic as sisters and the ways 
that they have maybe blamed each other for things that were never their fault. And I just I found 
this really beautiful and I'm clearly emotional. I find it really hard to talk about this book 
without crying. Not only because of the way it touches on grief, but also its portrayal of 
sisterhood. As much as I am very lucky to have a very positive, very healthy relationship with my 
sister, there were so many moments here that were just impeccably worded and expressed experiences 
of being a sister and having a sister. The deep abiding love, but also the competition and the 
frustrations and the inherent adversarial nature sometimes of being a sister, at least in the 
ways that society can treat sisters or the ways that parents can raise sisters. And though my 
relationships don't look like the relationships in this book, my relationship with my father 
was not like these characters' relationship with their father. And my sibling relationship 
is not like theirs. There is something universal about the way the story is told. If you have a 
sister or sisters, if you have lost a parent, specifically if you've lost a father, I think 
you will see a lot of yourself in this book. I think it is very raw and vulnerable in a way 
that I really appreciated and really needed. I found it cathartic and healing in a lot of 
ways. And I also found it, you guessed it, utterly devastating. The end of this book broke me 
and I cried for a very long time when it finished. I was so invested in these characters and in 
their relationships. It is a story that manages to capture both the sort of numb silence of grief 
as though you've been submerged and are existing in this muffled floating nothingness but also 
the loudness of that suffering of that pain of the loss the screaming of your heart and your 
soul at the grief you are experiencing and the shifting of your life in such a fundamental way. 
It's just beautiful. It is such a beautiful book. It came into my life at just the right time. I 
found it devastating and gorgeous and relatable and quite clever in its themes and its imagery 
and the symbolism that is just dripping from every page. I think it is a beautiful book. 
I think more people need to read it. I think more people need to recognize and appreciate 
the impeccable talent that is Julia Armfield. I needed to read this book and I'm very grateful 
I did and it is my favorite read of this year and I would highly highly highly recommend it. Five 
stars for Private Rights by Julie Armfield. I read this for my Artvark reading vlog so you can see 
my full in-depth review including spoilers if you like that kind of thing and you can see my sort of 
very fresh emotional reaction to it. As incredible as all of the books I read this year were, 
as incredible as every book on this list was, this is the book that changed me the most and that 
I am most grateful to have come across this year and I could not recommend it more. So, those are 
the 10 best books I read in 2025. Thank you for watching this video. Thank you for putting up 
with my emotional self. I'm always emotional at the best of times, and this year was not the 
best of times. So, I am even more emotional. Also, please let me know your thoughts, your feelings 
about the books on this list. If you've read any of them, do you agree with me? Do you disagree? 
If you disagree, be nice about it because these are absolutely the best books I read all year, 
and I feel a little protective over them. I am very grateful to have had these books in my life 
this year. I leaned on each and every one of these to get me through the worst year of my life, and 
I'm very grateful to books in general. and these books specifically for existing because sometimes 
the only way to get through is to escape into a good book. And these were very, very good books. 
So, I hope you enjoyed this video. Like it if you did. Subscribe if you haven't already. Check 
out my other top 10 lists if you missed them. My 10 most disappointing books of the year 
and also my 10 worst books of the year. Also, feel free to check out my book bracket video if 
you want to learn how I suffered to choose my top 10 and also to hear about the two bonus favorites 
of this year that didn't quite make it into this video. Check out the description box for links to 
reading vlogs and longer, more in-depth reviews of all of these books if you want to know more. And 
consider joining my Patreon if you want to read incredible books with me and discuss them with me 
in real time over Zoom. Every single year, some of our book club or buddy read picks end up on my 
top 10 favourite books of the year. We pick some incredible books and we also have really amazing 
discussions about them and I would love to have you join us. So check it out if you're interested. 
Thank you all for being here. I appreciate you so much. Happy holidays and happy new year and I 
will see you back here again in 2026. Bye friends.
