[1] SFF180 🚀 Anticipated Science Fiction 2026 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gy1AEXe_zEg

Hello again everyone. Welcome back to SFFF-180. Thomas here, your host as always. And yes, I'm still here. I know we haven't seen each other in far too long, and it is time for that to change. So, what better way to ring in the changes than with my annual selection of anticipated books for the new year. I know I promised this one a little while ago, a few weeks ago. It's going up much later than promised. I'm sorry about that. I may be a little bit more rusty at this than I thought, but you know, I'll get there. I'll get there. Now, in the case of these episodes in particular, I always seem to underestimate, or maybe I just ignore the level of work involved. But as long as the results are worth it. Now, over the last few years, I have found myself lending my voice to the course of those decrying the apparent commercial demise of science fiction. Like, seriously, where have all the SF books gone? There are at least two major imprints, and I'm talking about industry leaders in science fiction publishing for half a century or more, whose monthly announcements of upcoming books now no longer include nearly any original science fiction. At least that isn't media related like Star Wars. Now, of course, most other imprints, large, midsized, and small, are still carrying the SF Torch, and I offer all praise and support to them. But it's an undeniable fact that the science fiction publishing landscape is far different than I remember it being even as recently as the 2000s. I mean, let alone how it was when I was growing up. But is science fiction dead? No, definitely not. What it is is changing, evolving, as it's always done with the passage of generations. A great many new books that are clearly speculative dealing with near or distant futures, climate catastrophes, and so on are being marketed as litfic literary fiction. Even classic SF writers who were made in print like Philip K. Dick or Octavia Butler have been rebranded as mainstream literary fiction. What does seem to be very much out of fashion these days are the kinds of hard science fiction books that used to be the backbone of the genre as a generation of writers known for that kind of storytelling have either retired from writing or just passed on right like just the other week we lost John Vley now that's the science fiction I grew up reading the stuff that made me fall in love with SF so I do feel this passage of time the way going to the bookstore is a different experience today than it was when I was 30 or 20 or 12. Newer science fiction novels come from a more diverse array of author backgrounds and tend to focus on using SF as a scalpel to peel away the layers of our current society to see where technological and social trends are taking us. Space operas are focused on adventure and not so much the application of science to solve some inscrable cosmic challenge. But that's all okay. At the end of the day, what matters is entertaining and well-crafted storytelling. And even under the banner of SF, that can take many forms. Now, I think this list, which is the biggest I've ever put together, refutes any notion that science fiction is dead and buried in the 2020s. So, without further preamble, open up your Goodreads or Story Graph or whatever and let's take a look at the anticipated science fiction for 2026. Remember, all dates are highly tentative and subject to change without notice, which is especially true for titles that are farther down the line. We begin our journey on January 13th with Detour by Rob Hart, author of The Warehouse, and Jeff Rake, creator of the Netflix series Manifest. Now, in this one, the crew of an unsuccessful mission to Titan returns home to discover that the world they left isn't quite the same as they remember it. Now, it sounds a bit like Dark Matter by way of Andy Weir, but it could be a very entertaining popcorn read. On the 20th, Angry Robot releases A Hole in the Sky from space opera superstar Peter F. Hamilton. And this one's got an unusual history. It originally came out in 2021 as an audiobook original, but now we're getting the pros version. And judging by the fact that the protagonist is a teenager, it's probably a bit more YA adjacent than we are used to seeing from Peter. But hey, it's the first book in a generationship trilogy. Yay. So, that's awesome. Angry Robot will be releasing all three books next year with the sequels in June and December. Now, it seems unbelievable that January will be bringing us new books by two of the top space opera writers in the field backto back. But the following week on January 27th, Orbit releases Alistister Reynolds Houseion Years. Now, in this future noir murder mystery, a private investigator named Yuri Gagarin is yes, is hired to look into the death of an elite passenger aboard the starship Hion. February 3rd is a busy day with three titles of interest. First, a tour.com releases a new nolla by Ian McDonald, author of the Luna Trilogy and such acclaimed books as the Dervish House. Boy with Accidental Dinosaur is a coming of age sci-fi western about a young man who wants nothing more than to be a star buckaroo in the dinosaur rodeo. But his life takes a turn when he frees a dino from an abusive owner and braves the roving gangs of the formerly American West to bring it to safety. I'm worried it's going to be a bit of a tearjerker, but I'm still eager to check it out. Also on the third, tour releases The Forest on the Edge of Time, the debut climate novel by Jasmine Kirkbride, in which two women are sent through time, one to ancient Athens, the other to the distant future in an effort to change history and save the world from ecological disaster. Finally, The Hospital at the End of the World is the debut novel by Justin C. key and it's a piece of near future fiction set in New Orleans. A global AI system runs society and a young medical student must unravel family secrets to uncover the truth of his father's mysterious death and a strange illness that is plaguing newcomers to New Orleans. A couple of books on February 10th, starting with Matt Denimman's Operation Bounce House. Okay, now I haven't yet decided if I'm on board with the current craze for dungeon crawler Carl. I will let you know eventually. But this standalone novel sounds like it throws a wide satirical net, taking on colonialism, war, capitalism, and gamer culture all at once. When Earth's government decides to evict a colony on the distant world of New Sonora, it contracts with a mega corporation, which in turn decides to monetize the action, creating a video game that players pay a premium to join, presumably unaware they're designing weapons and war machines to be used against actual colonists. It could be an interesting revisionist take on Enders game. Also on the 10th, from a slightly more literary end of the spectrum, World's Edge by James Salace is described as a mosaic novel weaving together five stories set in a near future postcolapse United States as people try to pick up the pieces of a broken nation and try to forge a new future. Sounds pretty heavy, but I expect some good character work. Now, James Salace is also the author of a book called Drive, which was turned into a movie with Ryan Gosling. On the 12th, a book that I think is only slated for a UK release so far, Lost Protocol is the new SF thriller from veteran author Paul McCaulay. Now, it's about Mark Winters, a man working as a wildlife ranger whose life is upturned when he's pursued by both counterterrorism police and a group of cultists, the same cult he lost his sister to eight years before, who believe the world can be healed through collective dreams triggered by psychotropic mushrooms, and who are convinced for some reason that Mark possesses information vital to their success. In The Rain Seekers, a new tour.com novella releasing February 17th, a former media influencer and recovering addict trying to put her life back together, accompanies a pilgrimage across the surface of Mars to witness the planet's first rainfall after a century of terraforming. Now, what they discover both in their stories and their journey will be more incredible than they could have ever imagined. A busy day on February 24th, leading with Mickey 7 author Edward Ashton, who returns with After the Fall, part alien invasion story, part buddy comedy, and part workplace satire. A 100 years after the grays swept in to pick the last diggs of humanity out of the wreckage of a ruined world, Jon has found himself bonded to Mukk, one of the good grays. But when Mtok puts Jon's bond up as collateral against an abandoned house in the woods that he hopes to turn into a wilderness retreat for wealthy grays, Jon learns that there are limits to Mukk's friendship. Now Jon has 60 days before Mukk's loan comes due to unravel the mystery of how humans wound up holding the wrong end of the domestication stick and find a way to turn Mukk's half-baked plans into profit enough to buy back his life. Also on the 24th, The Iron Garden Sutra, the debut novel by AD Sway, who won the Nebula for best novella for the Dragonfly Gambit. Now, this darkly philosophical locked room murder mystery sounds like space opera with a dash of horror as a death monk and a team of researchers trapped on board a spaceship of the dead encounter something beyond human understanding. That would be where I would expect to encounter something beyond my understanding. And wrapping up February, the acclaimed Aaliyah Whitley returns with the misheard world from Solaris. Now, in this one, the world is once again at war between two nations simply known as North and South. Eliz Janv is a soldier for the South whose life is transformed when Marius Mandigreen, a spy from the north, is captured. As recorder and by degrees participant in Marius's interrogation, Janv comes to question everything she knew about the war and the very world she lives in. On March 3rd, Gareth L. Powell is back with Jitterbug set in a future where Jupiter and Saturn have both been destroyed and a mysterious force has built a huge habitable sphere from their ashes. When the sentient ship Jitterbug and her crew of bounty hunters rescue the sole survivor of a pirate attack, the Jitterbug and her crew find themselves the target of powerful political factions who want control of the data chip hidden in this woman's stomach. Meanwhile, something vast and ancient creeps towards them from the depths of space. Hell's Heart is the science fiction debut of Alexis Hall. Described as a sappic Moby Dick in space, it is set in a future where the survivors of Earth live in domes that are fueled by, and I quote, "the cerebrros spinal fluid of gargantuan quasi psychic space monsters." Our Captain Ahab for this adventure decides to hunt the final boss, the Mobius Beast who dwells in Jupiter's eye. And moving on to March 17th, here comes a title that I am sure is high on a lot of people's lists. The ridiculously prolific AdrienChaikovsky continues his acclaimed Children of Time saga with Children of Strife. No need to say much else here, although it's worth a mention that Orbit is putting out a box set of the first three books in shiny new hardcover editions in case anyone missed them the first time and wants a complete matching set. On March 31st, we get The Object by Joshua T. Calvert, a book that originally came out as a self-published title a couple of years ago. In this one, the sighting of something out in space near Pluto that is at first thought to be a comet could possibly be an extraterrestrial vessel. Naturally, this means the thing to do is send an international team of scientists on a mission to check it out. April 7th kicks off a strong month for USF with three titles. First from to the subtle art of folding space by John Chu is hard to find a clear synopsis of, but evidently it involves two cousins, Ellie and Daniel, who work maintenance on the skunk works, which is the underlying system that governs the multiverses. When Ellie learns of a glitch in the system that is helping to keep her alien mother alive, but threatening the physics of the universe overall at the same time, she has to make a choice. Yeah. The combination of multiveres mixed with dysfunctional family dynamics does sound a teeny tiny bit like John Chu watched Everything Everywhere All at Once a few too many times, but I'm still curious to see what he does with the premise. Also on the seventh, tour releases What We Are Seeking from Cameron Reed, who is experiencing a career revival after the re-release of their '9s debut, The Fortunate Fall. John Mariantha has been abandoned on the bizarre planet Skidia or Cyia light years from the peaceful forests that he loves. The desert is harsh and the people enthralled to a barbaric custom called marriage. He must find some way to make a life here. But on Cyia, survival means transformation and not everyone is willing to change. Cory Doctoro praises this book as a novel of worldbuilding from the biology up and the language out and it's giving a definite Ursula Luin vibe. Finally, on the 7th, Tachon releases Joshua Feinstein's satire, Your Behavior Will Be Monitored. This compulsively readable novel wrestles with vital questions of our time. Sensience, purpose, life, death, and how to make a really good commercial. Told entirely through questionably obtained company emails, chat messages, TED talks, bot trainings, and more, the book presents an all too plausible near future in which emotionally intelligent AI goes up against emotionally stunted humans. On April 14th, Cameron Johnston, author of The Maleficent 7, returns with a space fantasy, First Mage on the Moon, in which a misfit group of wizards undertake a blasphemous plot to use their magic to develop a rocket to get them to the moon, also known as the land of the gods. Yeah, this could be good fun. Three more books land on April 21st. First up, SL Huang returns with the language of liars, a novella about a telepathic spy who enters the mind of an alien being belonging to a race called the Star Eaters, the only species physiologically capable of mining the element needed for light years spanning space travel. Apparently, things go south. Also on the 21st, The Many by Sylvane Neville is the story of what happens when an alien virus comes to Earth and everyone infected by it discovers they're becoming part of a hive mind. Yes, that sounds exactly like Pluribus, but I think it's a safe bet that Neville started writing this well before the show came out. It'll be interesting to see a different take on the idea. And finally, Mike Chen's The Photonic Effect sounds like a good old-fashioned space opera, and it's being pitched to fans of Alistister Reynolds and AdrienChikovski. The crew of a spacecraft trapped for 10 years in a region of deep space returned to find civil war has broken out among their home worlds. The resolution may lie with the energy source that kept them trapped for so long, but that would mean returning to the region of space they just escaped. Moving on to the 28th and another crowded day. First up is one that I am cautiously optimistic for. Suzanne Palmer's Ode to the Half-broken is the story of a robot and its cyborg dog companion set 40 years after a civilization ending war that must come to terms with its past when it's attacked and one of its legs stolen. Now, I like Suzanne Palmer, so why only cautious optimism? Well, this sounds like it's trying a bit too hard to piggyback off Becky Chambers Monk and Robot stories. I mean, it even has a similar sounding title to those books, but yes, I'll give it a chance. Also on the 28th, The Radiant Dark by Alexandra Oliva or Oliva is described as Wild Dark Shore meets Arrival. And it's the story of several generations of a family told over the course of 50 years and how their lives are impacted by an extraterrestrial signal that has reached the Earth from 11 light years away. Now, this is another cautiously optimistic conclusion for me because I did not care for the one earlier book by this author that I've read, but I'm intrigued by how this book sounds like it's approaching its premise. Finally, on the 28th, in James Clearary's Sanctuary, a billionaire and his family attempt to isolate in their luxurious underground bunker as the effects of climate change ravage the surface. But they quickly find that a desperate group of raiders on the surface have no intention of letting them get too comfortable. Personally, I'm on the raiders side here, but we will see how the conflict unfolds. May the 5th is the single most crowded day on this list with four releases. Two of them in particular being what I think will be top titles for the year. First up, Andrew Dana Hudson's Absence. In this book, people are popping, disappearing one by one into thin air, an ongoing global cataclysm known as spontaneous human absence. Harvey Ellis works for the Bureau of Depopulation Affairs, a federal agency cataloging the crisis when a woman long thought absent reappears in her Kansas hometown, claiming she's been to the other side and back. Now, is her story true? Harvey intends to find out. Now, this one I am absolutely ready for. Fondly is back with a standalone dystopian epic, The Last Contract of Isako. Now, in this one, set in a world where money trumps loyalty and the elite have the power to extend life or end it, a battleworn corporate samurai undertakes one last mission on a merciless planet where death is always a mere breath away. Yeah, just inject this into my eyeballs right now. Next up, get ready because the Murderbot train is chugging along with Martha Wells's eighth installment, Platform Decay. Having volunteered to run a rescue mission, Murderbot realizes that it will have to spend significant time with a bunch of humans it doesn't know, including human children. Wow, I didn't realize this series was shifting towards the horror genre. And last, on May 5th, despite these high-profile titles, there is a debut coming out that probably shouldn't be overlooked. The Republic of Memory by Muhammad Elsed is a generationship story. Yay. In which the crew of the Safhina after two year after 200 years begins to ask questions like why should we continue to serve these rulers from the world we left behind who are tucked away in cryo sleep? What gives them authority over us? Now I feel like any good generationship story will eventually get to the point where revolution is inevitable. Moving on. And on May the 12th, Thomas Lrod's The Franchise is the epic tale of a Hollywood-owned fantasy world, The Malacharn, that's been brought to life on the big screen in a series of phenomenal blockbusters. Almost entirely populated by characters in total belief that their fake fantasy lives are real. A fan- favorite actor finds himself doubting the studio's work, but the franchise has an almost unstoppable momentum, and bringing freedom to a population that already believes itself to be free won't be as easy as he thinks. Two titles on May 19th, starting with And by Side They Wander, the new one by Molly Tanzer. Now, when some of Earth's greatest art treasures are on loan to an alien museum and the alien curators refuse to return them, obviously the situation calls for a little intergalactic art heist by a group of underqualified misfits. I guess all the overqualified misfits were busy. Also on the 19th, Ray Naylor is back once again with Palaces of the Crow. Now, in this speculative novel of the recent past, four young teens caught between Nazis and the Red Army survive winter in the woods with the help of a flock of highly intelligent crows with a magnificent secret of their own to protect. As the war goes on, the crows warn the children of danger and help them hide from all the human threats wandering the benited landscape. On May 26th, Amanda West's The Memory Foundation arrives, and it looks like another rich people are Totally Cooked story. Wealthy clients looking for the cure to memory loss find themselves trapped in a remote facility in the Alps. When the weather takes a turn for the worse, and power outages and growing paranoia begins affecting everybody, it becomes clear that no one at the Memory Foundation will ever be the same, and not everyone will survive the week. Also on the 26th, Andrea Haristen is back with the Redemption Center is closed on Sundays. All I'll say about this is that it's an extradimensional murder mystery and the main character is a detective who's also a dog. When I read this, I'm just going to imagine that the dog talks like Benois Blancc because I feel like that is the necessary vibe here. Moving into June. On June the 2nd, Isabelle J. Kim releases Sublimation, set in a future where anyone who immigrates to another country has to leave a copy of themselves behind. Some copies stay in touch with their originals, but not all. When Rose Kang, the copy of Soong, a young woman who moved to Korea, is contacted by So Yong about her grandfather's funeral, Rose has no idea Soong plans to steal her body and her life. two on June the 9th, starting with Naomi Critszer's distressingly relevant dystopia, Obstetrics, about an obstitrician who is kidnapped to help deliver babies for a fundamentalist cult that has no doctor. She knows she must escape and bring help to the girls trapped at the compound if it's the last thing she does. Also on the ninth, Joseph Eckertz, The Traveler, is the story of a man who unexpectedly finds himself every morning at exactly 7:52 a.m. involuntarily jumping forward in time in intervals that double in each instance. So, first he jumps forward one day and then two, and then four, eight, and so on until weeks and years are flying by. And all the while, his son, who is surpassing him in age, is working to become a leading scholar in quantum physics. all to hopefully stop what's happening to his father. Moving on to June 23rd now, one book a year from the ridiculously prolific AdrienChaikovsky is an absurd thought. So, here he is again back with Green City Wars, a noirish adventure described as Philip Marlo meets Red Wall, in which all the characters are animals. And I will say getting two books in a year starring animal detectives would not have been on any bingo card I ever would have drawn up. Our hero this time is Scotch, a raccoon PI on the hunt for a missing mouse in possession of a mysterious mcguffin. Missing mouse with a mysterious. I like that mysterious mcuffin. That's cool. Also on the 23rd, Saga releases the sixth nick. The first SF novel from noteworthy horror author Daniel Krauss, described as a hybrid of Enders game and the Alien franchise. The full synopsis sounds totally unhinged, but here is the short version. The book centers on a 9-year-old cultist with a brain enhanced by arcane technology who boards an organic sentient spacecraft that might be pregnant in order to find information about a plagerridden rogue planet. While we're on the subject of horror writers pivoting in a science fictional direction, June 30th brings us the new novel by Paul Tremble. In the brilliantly titled Dead But Dreaming of Electric Sheep, an online gamer is contacted by her mother, a tech executive who wants her to chaperone a man in a vegetative state who happens to have proprietary AI in his head from one end of the country to the other. And by chaperone, I mean she literally uses a controller to move him around like a game character. At least that's the impression I got from the synopsis. Meanwhile, we get his perspective as he tries to remember who he is and what's happened to him. July 14th brings us a new novel by Tami O from Saga Press. Not with a bang is described as Station 11 meets Leave the World Behind in a family drama at the end of the world about a crumbling household's attempts to find their way back to each other amidst an extinction level event. Moving into August, Richard Swan, author of the Empire of the Wolf trilogy, launches a new epic science fiction saga. The Infinite State is a thrilling tale of survival, and an eviscerating examination of totalitarianism. It begins at a flash point in the lives of a widowed party member, a disgraced investigator, and a hypersled pilot entangled in a plot to escape the suffocating authority of the fascist galaxy spanning Durian Empire. Getting down to the last three, and speaking of Station 11, September 17th sees the release of Emily St. John Mandel's new novel, Exit Party. Her latest Elegy for Humanity is set following the collapse of the United States, which she dates to 2031. Our heroine, Ari, is attending a party in LA, which is suddenly beset with strange occurrences, including the host vanishing into thin air. As Ari tries to unravel the mystery, the story takes us from a future America splintered by civil war to the seaside cliffs of Greece where weapons dealers hide in an elegant resort and from the domed city of Paris to a colony on the moon. On October the 6th, Annalenez returns with a wall is also a road. The story of an alien student in biology named garden path who happens to be a slime mold who desperately wants to pass their exams with the highest honor possible. A prize given to scholars who discover something truly novel in the universe. Their journey brings them to Earth to an ancient city named Pompei. Now, I know a lot of readers don't care for Nu's work when they're in a whimsical mood, but I have personally enjoyed their sense of humor before, so I'm anticipating a good time here. And finally, we've made it to the end of the list. Adam Roberts is always an interesting writer, and his next book, Frankenstein Rex, takes the anti-GMO del Toro approach to Mary Shel's creation. Bigger and stronger and superior to regular men and effectively immortal, the creature in this story becomes a tyrant who first conquers Europe and then the world. But as generations pass, the creature realizes he is very mortal after all and desperately attempts to create himself an heir. Roberts examines the nature of power and the way people will cozy up to evil in order to save themselves rather than take a bold stand. Now, Adam Roberts has told me there is a possibility this one might be pushed to January 2027, but I'm going to go ahead and include it here. And there it is, my huge and exhaustive list of anticipated science fiction in 2026. And this is only the first of three videos. Anyway, it is so good to be back with my SFFF-180 family. And if you enjoyed watching, please hit that like button, share the video with all of your SFF reading friends far and wide, and above all, please subscribe if you have not done so. That is what helps the channel to grow. And don't forget to drop by my Thursday night reading hangouts streaming live at 7:30 central. You can also support the channel at my buy me a coffee link. Also by clicking the thanks button and leaving a featured comment. All donations to the channel go to help me pay Matt Olsen, my immensely talented channel artist who has created all of my incredible thumbnails and channel art for nearly 12 years now. No AI art on this channel ever, only Matt's human hands. Once again, thank you all for watching and until I see you next time, stay safe and healthy and happy reading. Oh, and it's possible you've heard a snoring dog in the background, but whether you have or not, I'll let you say hi.
