[1] The Best Dark Fantasy RPG of 2025? — youtube.com (2025-03-30)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxYszLdja9o

# The Best Dark Fantasy RPG of 2025?

- Channel: The Wanderer
- Length: 02:07:10
- Views: 16.9K
- Likes: 446
- Published: 2025-03-30T06:49:58-07:00
- Category: Gaming
- Keywords: tainted grail overview, tainted grail update, tainted grail skyrim, tainted grail avowed, tainted grail open world rpg, tainted grail review, Skyrim meets Dark Souls, RPG like Skyrim, RPG like Morrowind, RPG like Oblivion, Games like Skyrim, Games like Oblivion, Best RPG 2025, New RPG 2025, Dark Fantasy games 2025, Dark Fantasy RPGs 2025, Games like Fallout, Tainted Grail, Tainted Grail Fall of Avalon, Fall of Avalon, Awaken Realms
- Language: en

## Description

Full Playlist ► https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxYszLdja9o&list=PLoxDMFBt4H82mQB2hyX8CKaACRsX8qcIV
Tainted Grail: Fall of Avalon ► https://store.steampowered.com/app/1466060/Tainted_Grail_The_Fall_of_Avalon/

Tainted Grail: Fall of Avalon Description:
Step into a dark reimagination of Arthurian legends in this first person, open world RPG. Explore a world stuck in everlasting autumn, witness falling legends and make meaningful choices woven into a complex, branching storyline.

Tainted Grail: The Fall of Avalon is a mature, first-person perspective open-world RPG, taking you into a dark fantasy world inspired by Arthurian legends. Experience a complex, branching main storyline, where you will decide on what legacy King Arthur's reign will leave on the world after 600 years of continuous struggle. 

This game is a love letter to open-world FPP RPGs. 

Every inch of the open world is full of things to find. Items, story secrets, new enemies, dungeons, unique quests, and NPCs. Explore at your own pace and go wherever you want, without any limitations! 

Swap between powerful melee weapons, bows, magic, throwables, mixtures, and other usables to create your unique combat style that will get tested by tons of hard enemies in the game! 

Want to be a crazy alchemist/berserker punching enemies? Sure, why not?

An epic blacksmith mage summoning undead hordes? Yep, we got you covered.

Unique stealthy archer? No, not this one…

… just kidding, obviously. This is THE type of game to go for a stealth archer archetype. 

Between stats, perks, EQ, and crafting, you can play exactly as you want. 

Support me ► https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=PUXTL5HMQDGE2

#Taintedgrail #darkfantasyrpg

## Transcript

The allconsuming red death. 600 years ago, King Arthur led the great escape from the homelands where our kingdoms were ravaged by the plague. Leading people to Avalon, he started the age of conquest and took the island from the four dwellers.
Using the mysterious powers of men his together with Merlin, they cleanse the land of the weirdness, a primordial force of chaos and possibility. But now, long after the death of the king, Camelot is in shambles as Avalon fractures into chaos.
Old legends are gone and the weirdness is creeping back into our lands. The bleeding heart of the plague has started beating once more. And the red death has returned. Rulers of the island asylum and order of the red priests are desperate to stop it by any means necessary.
Rotting in one of their cells is a stranger who might bring a spark of change to this cursed island stuck in everlasting autumn. Hey guys, Wanderer here and welcome to Tanned Grail, the fall of Avalon. It's been a while since I recorded. Uh my voice is still a little bit rough. I've been quite sick, but I'm hoping to uh start on this game. This is kind of uh I'm told sort of a bit of a Skyrim/oblivion/Dark Souls inspired type game. Kind of take a little bit of all of them, little bit of Witcher maybe too, and kind of roll them all together.
And that's what you get with this with it kind of being its own thing as well.
So, uh let me customize my character here and we'll get started. Okay, there we go. That is our character. It's me if I hadn't gotten a shave for a couple of months basically. And uh yeah, let's go. Rise and shine. Rise and shine. Yes, it's me again. And I hope this time you'll cooperate without me needing to repeatedly hit you in the face. Hey.
Oh, we are in a dungeon cell. Okay, that FOV is a little bit too much even for me. I think I had set this previously and it's a little bit too high for my taste. Let me adjust that. I think about 90 ought to be fine. Yeah, that feels pretty good. Look, we just have to get this over and done with.
Unless you want a visit from someone upstairs, and trust me, you don't. Just like before, no food until we're done here. And the moment you start getting on my nerves, we're going back to my tried and tested fists. So, tell me, what were you doing in the forest when the red shields caught you? Okay, we can select our play style here. Uh, I would like to do Let me see.
Probably a two-handed. Let's go with the standard two-handed warrior. Yeah. Heavy armor, two-handed. I was on my way to enlist in the army. Army, huh? If I were in charge, I wouldn't even consider letting you join the ranks. I'd rather feed you to the dogs. Less waste. And you were planning to enlist with Only problem is I don't know what these do. Like blood transfusion. I'm not sure what that does. I guess we'll go with infantry.
That'll give me heavy armor. Although maybe I'd rather go with this since I could maybe use the magic more. Not going to use one-handed though. Let's Let's go with battle mage here. Oh, that's what you call yourselves now.
I've never seen you people do anything but fireworks and illusions. Not much use during a real fight, as is evident from you being in here rather than out there. Okay, that was easier than I expected. Now, unfortunately, we'll have to stop. I've always found it puzzling that these people won't bathe you. I understand. You're literally rotting in this damned cell. But them, there's just no excuse for the stench. There they are.
Finally. I know. I know you have a million questions, but they'll have to wait. One of these keys will open your cell. When you get out, head left. I'll scout ahead.
Huh. Everyone's movement's kind of like kind of little like an after image whenever they move. All right. Yeah, we're not in great shape. Our veins are all showing. Are we like sick or are we just in bad shape from being imprisoned? I mean, we didn't look this bad when we were in character creation. It's like we have the plague or something. Okay, we have nothing on us. We're going to escape now. I guess we got the key from that guy. Well, see a skeleton friendo.
[Music] He's a twitcher. I doubt we'll have much use for most of the stuff, but sure. Let's let's take at least some clothing, I guess. Broken wooden club. Can I make use of that? Okay, let's see. Looks like yes. And how do we equip? Just leftclick it.
There's our key and a burning [Music] ember. This is a projectile, a magical spell. So, it's either or. I don't suppose I can bind these, can I? I don't see a way. Lay attack. Long is heavy attack.
blocking. Got it. Just have a whole full-on block here. We got a bash there as well. Stamina bar refills pretty quickly. Stamina, health, and magicka type thing. Holster weapons are all very similar to Fallout controls and the active objective.
Okay, we can apparently open up all of the jail cells in this area. Oh, maybe worth exploring here.
The seven commandments. Bit of lore here. First came the prophet. Then came the word.
The word is sacred. The pope, his cardinals, and his priests receive the word. The word is the way. We are all brothers and sisters starving for the word. The word is sustenance. Together in holy suffering, we walk the pilgrim's path. The word is our strength. Repent by facing the trial of the plague. The word is our cure. The priest gladen read guide us towards grace. The word is salvation. There are no other sanctities.
only the prophet's word and the will of the red church. Do not doubt your faith and you'll be rewarded. Some pretty heretical or not heretical uh fanatical people here. Everybody's been killed.
Okay. Guess I'll take your roast. Beautiful Liliana in the chamber of ecstasy. Oh, a little bit of uh reading over here. Were you? Oh my. Sir Osbert could not wait any longer. He shut the door behind him and jammed the latch home. In a few determined strides, he approached Lyanna, capturing her life waist in a strong embrace. Panting heavily with desire, he lifted her as if she weighed nothing and threw her on the bed. He said about conquering her lips, neck, and cleavage with hungry kisses.
Lilyanna arched her off the bed and moaned wantingly, which only spurred him further. Sir Osbert tangled the fingers of his right hand in Liliana's golden locks, and with his left, he loosened the lacings of her bodus. After he finally managed to unlace it, his eyes were met with the rousing sight of Liliana's voluuptuous body. He took her love apples into his hands, feeling them rise and fall with her quickening breath. He caressed them for a while, but soon his hands started wandering down her body to lift her skirt and petticoat. Lyanna's lips tasted like the sweetest cherries. Sir Osbert couldn't help but cling to them as his fingers slipped between the alabaster columns of her legs. Liliana's knees spread invitingly and without hesitation, almost as if they had a mind of their own. Sir Osbert pushed down his pants and took out the weapon a man uses to lay love siege. He aimed his enormous battering ram at the opening of her gates and began the attack. Oh my god, that's awful. Holy [ __ ] The worst. That was really, really bad. Okay, we have no lock pickicks to open that. A second broken wooden club. Can I dual wield them?
Oh my. A bit of a drawing here of Liliana. Cooking for the resistant part one. Simple recipes from resistant from simple ingredients. Not everyone has refined taste buds and that's perfectly fine.
I'm Auntie Milrid here with simple recipes for those who prefer straightforward flavors. for moderate hunger. Tribe beggars's fair. A staple for folks like you.
Okay, that gave us a recipe is what I'm getting. Hey, look at that. I got some stuff here. Can I I should have read that, I guess.
Huh?
Am I going to Oh, hold on. Hold on. One here. Uh, let me see. So, I have a recipe for beggar's fair. Yes, I can do this. So, I have everything for this. Let's craft many of them. Okay, we've made some food. Oh, we have more stuff here, too.
Another one. My my [Music] my missing cabbage and we can make some cabbage rolls. I'm missing onion. We can make onion. Okay. We'll save the rest for later, I guess, when we have more ingredients, so we can get recipes throughout the world. Can I go ahead and equip this other? Yes, we can. Okay, we can dual wield. And how does that work as far as attacking goes?
Looks like I can just hold down a heavy attack and double attack with them. We just get faster attacking as well whenever. Yeah, looks like it.
Okay, more of the seven commandments. A random jar. Take the ale. Cannot open this bar door. Okay, this is not the way we're supposed to go, but I want you to explore this way anyway.
It's an RPG. Of course, I'm going to explore my surroundings more than just going directly to where we're supposed to [Music] go. Ramblings of a weary mind. The dark nights here are endless.
Everything's Everything breathes and calls crisply. A red monk came and put fire in my chest, but I knew it was a good thing. The first and only king visits me. Visited me the night before.
Arthur wept, then reached to me with his hands, not two, but four. Never closer to the king's grace. Then he disappeared. The bleeding heart of the plague beats in frantic despair. One, two, one, two. I hear his rhythm from behind the wall. I know it. I feel it.
One, two, one, two. organic machinery that created this place and these people. Put your ears to the walls and listen. One, two, one, two, listen. I'll try listening. This guy's gone.
I'm [Music] listening. I think it's just the ramblings of a mad man pretty much.
Nothing to it really. Patient is mentally stable, though physical symptoms of the red death persist. I've started applying small doses of black henbane to his skin and asked him to keep a dream journal.
Progress is strong, but he panics easily. I'll introduce a mild calming agent to help him relax and open his mind without fear. The patient's mental state is worse than expected. Upon waking, he either becomes briefly katonic or curls up muttering. Patient is now fully catonic, unresponsive, unmoving, not eating. Death seems the only mercy left. I'll conduct an autopsy to seek a possible brain changes. There must be something to learn here. Take that. I [Music] guess this tunnel is scheduled to be filled and secured. Stay clear and avoid tampering with it. This one is broken. Someone bust it out.
Oh, we have a lockpick for this.
Um, guess we got it.
Hello. Are we going to fight? I think we'll send you to the effect.
I think not. Red priest a [Music] dagger. Ain't this stuff uh an upgrade? Medic. So I doubt it's going to be any use to me. A brain.
[Music] Water pitcher might be useful if it has water in it. Not really sure what was that. Just a medic song.
Okay. Uh let's see here. Dagger. How does that compare to my weapon? 6 to9 versus 6 to 10. Mine's actually a bit better than his dagger, surprisingly. Can I use any of my food I made to restore some health? Yeah. Well, no, it's not sage. I want to use some uh beggar's fair. Yes. Let's go ahead and use this. There we go. Get some health back, some healing going.
[Music] Yep, we can go through here. I don't think this is the way we were meant to go, but I'll certainly go over here and see what we can find. A mana potion.
[Music] I suppose I could have just hopped over this.
Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe I have to go around that way. I probably could have gotten over it if I was persistent enough. Okay. Anything else over here that I missed?
Hey bro.
Drip.
Drip.
Drip. Do you hear it? Soon the king will return. I told the priests. They laughed. But they'll soon see for themselves. Drip.
Drip. Drip. The storm is gathering.
You're free. You can go. None of us are free. We are all bound. All bound. And to go. No. No. No. No. No. I don't want to. I found my place to await the king.
You can go if you want. But you won't get far. We are all bound. All bound.
What are you talking about? At last, the age of resurrections shall end. And then the once and future king will return. I cannot wait to behold his radiance. Trip after trip. With each drop, it gets closer and closer.
[Music] trip after trip closer and closer. Wonder if he's talking about like Arthur is going to return like evil Arthur. Is Arthur in this world evil? Hey Lisa, you're not looking so great. Did Do you see what a miracle I am?
Sure. Healed.
Healed. I am no longer sick.
What happened to you? The depths filled with the weirdness. Oh, and a chamber.
It It was rather dreadful, I must admit.
They left me here for some time. I can't quite remember. I felt everything within me turn inside out, then settle back into place once more. I thought I was dying, but now all is well. The West is behind me.
Can I help you somehow? You don't need to help me. The Red Priests already did. They cured me. Thanks to them. I feel just fine now. I hope the same fate awaits you and you'll no longer suffer. Have a nice day, kind sir.
You really don't look okay. You look, if anything, worse than me. You look quite infected with red death. That is the uh stuff afflicting everyone, including my own character.
This [Music] um feels a bit familiar to Dark Souls in like the whole uh the undead. The curse of the undeath. It's upon everyone. A note written in blood.
Anyone who finds this note, you need to run before they start your treatment.
And it makes you realize you need to gnaw your own legs off.
I promise that you are not sick. And even if you are, they will not cure you.
Save yourself as I did. I stole a small glass jar when they weren't looking.
Broke it into tiny shards and swallowed them all. Soon I will be free. God, man. There's got to be better way to end yourself than eating glass though, you know. Hey man, guards key can unlock this. Didn't see a guard's key.
[Music] [Music] Monster blood.
Took a big hit there. Brother Ambrosia's body is being prepared for his funeral, which will take place in one week. Please await the arrival of the red shields to handle any remaining dangers. Do not enter. Do not touch.
More undead. Uh, maybe I'll let my health come back here. Room of weirdness remedies. Handle the afflicted with great care, for their suffering may one day become your own.
Record every detail. The smallest note may determine life or death.
[Music] I'm kind of glad they went with the uh very similar to like Fallout lockpicking. It's a good system. No need to overthink it, you know.
I received three patients with mild red death symptoms and tested a new treatment using weird beast bone meal.
Patient one had typhoid, not red death.
I burned the body. Patient two. By day three, she acted erratically, scratching, pulling her hair, and screaming. By day five, she nearly broke free before her heart failed. Her autopsy may yield more insights. Patient three, little effect. Disease progresses at the usual pace, but his mind is clear. I'll continue observing.
Conclusion: Despite mixed results, I don't consider the treatment a failure.
If adverse effects are reduced, this could be closer to a cure. They have no idea what they're doing. They're not helping anything.
They're [Music] just doing [Music] whatever. All right. I don't know about this two at once thing. Seems not great.
[Music] Yahoo! Oh boy. Not [Music] good. I'm running.
Can I scarf some food in combat here?
Will it help? I do have this fish soup, too. Not sure if they stack. It does heal in combat. That's good. You kind of screwed otherwise.
[Music] I get one of these guys down. Okay, stray thing seems to be kind of effective at least. Let's see what's back here then.
Hopefully some useful stuff because used up a lot of healing stuff for that bracelets. Those are some decent decent um clothing items. I assume because they're not like grayed out. Thought they're in better shape. Subject 17. I drilled a burr hole in the left temporal bone, revealing a skull filled with thick coagulated blood. After draining using more grains cut, I sawed through the cerebral faulks, severed nerves, and the brain stem that removed the brain. Its abnormal shape suggested internal swelling. Incisions were made in the Venus sinuses and the base of the skull was left intact. Finally, the brain was placed in alcohol in cedar oil for further study. All right, let me check here. So, I can equip stuff like this, too. All right, so we have various items here. Can compare things here. Are they all like just one armor? These are all really basic items, but this is better, maybe. Uh, sure. Wear that instead. So, I have multiple weapon loadouts here, too. Put magic on here.
So, how do I switch? Can I Does my mana come back by the way? It does. Cool. So, I can use this.
And I should be using this then because melee is kind of rough, not going to lie.
Oh gosh, there is a Okay, there is a die.
Just an alt. I [Music] see. Oh gosh, I did not dodge well.
took a lot of damage to take him down. These guys are tough. Even on normal, they're kind of tough. Okay.
Oh, we're back around to this area.
Okay, different way to get in here, I guess. Health potion, monster blood. I'm assuming these are alchemical ingredients, some of them at least. I doubt we're going to use any uh brains or anything, but notes on weirdness mutations.
Mutational changes are not significant, although they span the internal organs, the heart, enlarge, the size of two adult fists, increased pulmonary function, etc. Among the contents of the stomach are remains of undigested human flesh, most probably belonging to the deceased, visible bite marks on his arms, mutation area. Overall, an amalgamation of human and porcene internal organs. A two-chambered stomach with significantly increased capacity and unnatural tissue fusing the hooves with the body. The heads joined together in shape worse than any nightmare.
Okay, none of this stuff seems significant. Let's head on out. This one I have not been in yet. Here we go.
Father Vaughn's notes. Subject 37. Catherine Goosecard, female, age 22. Short, skinny, 7 months pregnant.
Typical of the red death. Pale red spots on the face, neck, and arms. Cause of death. Child birth. Exposure. The weirdness might have altered the woman's psyche. Anger outbursts. Melancholic.
melancholia. As physical alteration, the fetus seemed to be much more affected by the weirdness than the mother, as if it absorbed it all. After the first standard session, the fetus started to grow rapidly. After the second session, its mass had tripled. It needed to be extracted from the womb. The torso and head of the fetus were unnaturally overgrown, but its limbs were weak and flabby. Despite its monstrous appearance, it turned out to be of good viability. More research on subject 38 to follow. Mother did not survive this procedure.
So experiment on the baby then. Yeah, there they are. Both of them. Okay.
This is all rather dark and gruesome. Requires a pickaxe. There is a pickaxe here. I can mine through this to break through it.
Oh, hello.
My make the proet.
[Music] I'm running.
We'll send you into the abyss. It's kind of hard to aim the uh magic.
I was trying to go for head shot, but I'm not really sure if it's worth it. Got him. We are receiving experience.
So, I guess we will level up eventually. Still want to know where I get this uh guard's key from. I got a key, but it wasn't the correct one for that. Where'd my other corpse go?
Oh, here we go. There's just bones left. Wonder if I can pick this still like more. Pick this more. Get through there. Blood transfusion.
Take brother Sirill's prayer. Can I guide me with thy word among the flock, which must be brought back to the threshold of thy sacred fold, so that they may know grace, hear the beating of the bleeding heart of the plague, and contribute to our divine mission. This is my humble plea. There's a bunch of different prayers here. Not going to read all of them, I don't think.
[Music] Assuming if there's something I can pickaxe, it'll just come up and I'll be able to use E on it like before.
Another mana potion. I guess I could have chugged a mana potion earlier, but it seemed like a waste this early to be using mana potions. Uh, hello there. Rather serious. Ah, red death stage five.
Self-experimentation wants to know the patients perspective. The aim is to gather knowledge about the stimuli. our patients experience. Treat like a common patient. Hi. Who? Who's there? Forgive me, but my eyes fail me these days. You shouldn't be here. I'm very, very sick.
Who are you?
I am brother Sirius. Your question suggests that you are not one of the red priests. Did you escape yourself? You really should have stayed there. We can't let the plague spread any further.
Although I understand.
You understand what? All of it. The patience, the madness around. Somewhere along the way, we lost ourselves. The mission to find a cure became a burden. I can't tell who you are.
But I'm so so sorry for all that we've done. It's a shame, but when you're fighting a losing battle, sometimes there's just no other way.
Why are you locked up? When I discovered that I'd fallen ill, I asked to be placed in a cell. I sought to understand the experiments from the patients perspective to learn which stimuli provoke the strongest reactions. And I also wanted to equip my brothers with new tools for their work.
You don't look well. Looks like your illness has gotten pretty bad.
fourth stage if I'm not mistaken. We've identified six. So, I'm not far from my end. The first stage is the most treacherous when the symptoms are almost invisible, but that's when the disease spreads fastest. It was the same with me. From the second to fourth stages, the symptoms become visible.
Crea, tooth loss, painful sores, festering wounds that won't heal. The last two stages are visceral. The worst possible. The victim's insides burn up, turning to mush.
The brain starts to die and the body becomes a mindless shell. That's what's ahead of me.
Do they really cure the red death? We've had some success treating it up to the fourth stage, but it's still a gamble.
Sometimes we manage to push the disease from stage three back to stage one only to see it to stage five as soon as treatment stops. We believe that with the weirdness we could eliminate this randomness.
How would the weirdness cure the red death? The weirdness, my child, is pure potential.
That's the theory. In practice, we tried to direct its power where we needed it most. The effects, shall we say, varied.
Well, may the prophets were be a safe haven for you.
Good luck with the whole dying in a cell thing, I guess.
[Music] [Music] H store room.
[Music] more stuff, more ingredients we can make food with. Seems like food is going to be pretty handy. Just want to grab all we can here. The encyclical of the second pope.
Yet many are unruly, corrupt, and indolent. Though they claim to know the prophet, their deeds betray them. Their minds are sullied and the prophet sees all. As punishment, their skin is marred by red marks festering and flaking. The red death not only claims their lives but dams their souls. Y hope remains for the impure. The prophet declares, "Renounce unruliness, dishonesty, and indolence. Embrace my word in your heart, and your soul will be purified as mine was." The prophet warns, "Trust in my disciplined disciples as you trust in me. To harm them is to harm me and you will be punished accordingly.
[Music] We are gone.
[Music] Does that bandage do anything for me? By the way, I don't see bandages anywhere here that I can use. I'm not sure I can actually make use of him. What is this? Is this uh shoots a projectile that applies bleed. Drains the health. healing you.
Oh, that sounds nice. Maybe I should uh put that on. Wait, can I do like dual casting?
Oh.
Oh, sucking the life out of him. Okay, build me is probably useful in alchemy or something like that.
Hot goo. Well, maybe a chip for something. Let's hope all these um parts and such aren't useful for anything. I doubt they are. Min's method of separating the mind. Examining the old in search of the new from Elder Brother Uric. Chapter 1.
Though often dismissed, Priest Muran the Hol's methods recorded during King Arthur's reign offer crucial insights on the separation of the mind. His text, albeit an old language, is valuable for understanding extraction practices.
Despite Mirren's immersion in druidic rituals, he scorned their quackery and wisely retained their valuable knowledge. This discernment alongside his contempt for past masters makes Mirren's work indispensable, revealing useful deridic obser observations while discarding the rest. Mirren insisted that the subjects must understand and feel the red priest's procedures. If they lose consciousness, revival is essential. Partial anesthesia is allowed if they can still see to extend usefulness of a promising subject. Tend to any life-threatening wounds. Keep them alive while you're doing all the terrible things to them.
That's essential. Or keep him conscious. Minimal anesthesia.
This all just sounds really, really terrible. It is time, my brothers. You cry. Woe is us. We escaped death only for it to follow us here to Avalon. But I say all is not lost. We have been delivered to our salvation, to the one place where we can fight the Red Death and win. For Avalon holds what our homelands did not. The weirdness. Many see the weirdness as a curse. But I believe it's our path to survival. We must not fear it. We must welcome it.
This can heal us. Seek the edge of the weirdness. Embrace it. Let it cure our afflictions. To the brave and the faithful. Spread the word. Prepare your tools. Cast out doubt and fear. And open your mind to the weirdness as our saving grace.
More healing potion. Burning embers. Oh, that's a uh recipe. I think a blood clot. Oh. Uh parrying. Tap block right before the enemy attacks. Lands to parry.
prevents all damage and drains a hefty amount of the enemy stamina.
Okay. Am I going to fight this guy?
You Oh, you're not one of them. Please free me.
Sure, why not? That's not the kind of freedom I'm asking for. There's no saving me now. Even if I could escape, I'd only be putting others at risk. You have to. You have to kill me. And when it's done, please take my tags to the horns of the south. Let Fergus know I didn't run.
Uh, who's Fergus? He's the quarter master of the horns of the south. It's a keep. If you make it out, you should be able to see its lighouses from the beach.
Okay, sure. Thank you. May the all mother bless you.
Can I um Can I drain him for some health back? Thanks, buddy.
Swift steps. Monster brain. Get a bunch of random stuff.
an alchemy station. Oh, I can make some stuff here. This is very very Skyrim, isn't it?
Okay, so I have to go and get stuff and then I can start crafting maybe, possibly. Okay, there's this way we can go. Need a laboratory key for that. I didn't see a laboratory key anywhere, though. We've got this way. We can go over here still.
I have gotten some mushrooms. Maybe we can use those, right? Two. Oh, yeah. Two ways we can go here. Please. I was only doing what I told you. Give me my son. I've already told you everything. I swear. Wait, you're not.
You're a prisoner. Go. Escape while you still can.
You can escape. The way is clear. No, I won't make it. Besides, they threw me into a cell that once held a patient in the final stages of the disease. I'm probably sick already. Go. Don't worry about me. I'm not worth it.
A [Music] a be back here in a [Music] second. Let's see where this way [Music] goes.
[Music] Think I'm too far away here. Oh, that's a big cast. Nice.
[Music] abuse their AI here a little bit. Give that health back, buddy.
Nice. Oh, we'll send you to the abyss.
Wish my mana came back faster, but uh hey, at least we're getting health back here. Where'd this guy go? Oh, there he is. Hey, man. This way.
Hey, cheating.
I'm not afraid to suffer.
Good, cuz I'm sucking the life out of you.
The word protects me. My sneaking is going up doing this, too.
Yeah, my magic.
Nice. You're dead.
Got him. That was a higher level one.
Gave me double the amount of experience. Took a lot longer to kill, too. This guy This guy's dying position. Oh jeez.
How [Music] undignified. Okay, put that away for now. Blood, hearts, and guts. The alchemy of viscera. An alchemist worth their craft must embrace the visceral. There is no greater power than the lifeblood freshly torn from a creature's chest cavity. The viscera contain strength unmatched by any plant. No matter how sacred trees neither feel nor fight, they lack the instincts that create true potency. The rage of a cornered beast is what to survive. These produce the strongest ingredients for potions that can push humans beyond their limits.
Those who work only with delicate herbs refuse to acknowledge this primal truth.
Alchemy binds us to the creatures we hunt, transforming fear into fury and awakening the beast within. To reject this is deny alchemy's essence. It's through blood and viscera that we transcend our fragile natures, wielding potions forged from the raw, unyielding power of life itself.
Blood sucker potion gives you 10% life steal. Okay. Should I have been getting the brains all along? Okay. Can we make some more stuff here?
Still missing some ingredients for this, but I can make more of this. I made some mashed potatoes.
Nice. That's all I can do though for now.
[Music] Got an alchemy thing over there. More hot goo.
H. My favorite Lots of various ingredients here. Place is huge. I'm getting kind of confused, honestly.
Hopefully I'm not supposed to try and like use the pickaxe manually in any of these places like smacking them, you know?
Hello. I don't know if I want to waste a lockpick on these places though, you know?
Like I can open them up, but like is it really worth it?
traitor. Oh, he's labeled as a traitor. There's a hole that's boarded up back there. I see a mana potion in [Music] there. Um, yeah, I'll get it. I'll go do this for the mana potion.
Oh jeez, I'm going to use all my picks up.
Well, origin potion. Reset your skills. Oh, well that was worth it.
It was hard to get in here, but man, that was worth it.
Absolutely. You don't look uh particularly [Music] healthy. Hi. And who the hell are you?
Another one of those red dogs. Say a prayer to your goddess and get ready to die, scum.
I'm not a red priest. I'm a prisoner just like you. Then why are you dressed in their bloody rags? Well, I see you bear the marks of torture, too. Maybe the priest messed with your mind because one more moment and you'd be dead.
Uh, so what were they doing to you?
Nothing good. They thought they break me fast like some camelian wimp. Big mistake on their part. Besides, I doubt they were waking you up with a kiss on your forehead either.
Have you seen the hooded man with a bow?
He helped me to escape. I don't know.
Barely saw anything because I was either knocked out or had blood in me eyes.
You're lucky to have someone risking their own ars to help you out.
Well, what's your name? Conquer from the Delorea pup if you hadn't already guessed that much.
Okay. Um, now might not be the time to ask about the tribes.
All right. Well, uh, good luck. No time for a chinwag. Just get the hell out of here.
Oh, okay.
[Music] Oh god.
Bugane. Caution. Infected bugains may spread the illness through the airborne droplets as they exhale, particularly when their breathing becomes labored.
Staff must wear enchanted full body protective suits. Gloves must be reinforced with anti-piercing material given the bigang's powerful bite again while defined skin lesions with raised borders lost sensation in affected area due to nerve involvement.
[Music] Okay. Hi there. Look, I'd like to bust you out, but uh a spear, but I've only got so many lockpicks here. Oh, that's uh Conquer cell. He took out quite a few of them.
Pretty impressive, honestly. Took out four at once. I struggled with one. So, I mean, that's pretty impressive.
Okay, I want to go back through. I'd like to help you all out, but yeah, I just Let me see. What does this say? Uh, severe disability due to nerve damage and muscular atrophy. In the event of an emergency procedure, follow enhanced protective messengers to ensure safety of all brothers involved. Yeah.
Okay. She's she's going to be dead soon anyway.
[Music] Brutal as that is to [Music] say, can I do any alchemy now that I learned that potion mead and monster blood and blood clots to make blood sucker potions, but I need a lot of um blood clots. There. I need two more blood clots. 10% life steal for 20 seconds.
That could be very, very strong.
Stealing 10% of the damage that you do back as life could be quite strong. There is more stuff here.
Monster blood. Not found a use for the hearts or brains yet, but maybe I should be taking them.
[Music] Okay.
Um gosh, there's so many ways to go here. Oh, they're like dumping these guys down in the pit down here, huh?
Uh I don't think going down there is a good idea.
I don't see a way to get down there like safely. I push this cart. No, I cannot push the cart. The cart has no physics. Okay. Well, the other I think that's it. I think we keep going then that way that we were going a second ago. I I haven't been sure exactly. Want to make sure I'm not missing stuff, but I I think we're good now to go up through here. Well, this is a dead end, isn't it? I guess we can't go any further. Should I open this up and see what's in here? Also, we got a spear.
10 to [Music] 12.
Okay, I could try getting that one lady out, but I have one lock pick left and I might need it for something.
So, real sorry, but I'm going to keep that, I think.
Okay. Back up through, I think, cuz that just goes to that cell, which we've already been on the other side of that. No need to pick that or anything cuz we already went through that the other side of it. So, we go back through here, I think. And then we never got the uh the key here, did we?
I wonder if I [Music] could. Surely I can get that somewhere.
That key. I wonder if I go back through there. If I open one of those other locks, if I could find it somewhere. I bet I could. I'm quite thoroughly not lost, but I've I've gone off track here.
Hi there. Oh, it's you again.
[Music] Just going to drink this guy's meat, huh? Okay.
Well, you have a good rest there. I'd say you've earned it with all that killing you've [Music] done. Okay. So, this is not the right way either. So, we got to go out this way. This was the opposite way. We're supposed to go supposed to go this way.
Brother Sept and I'd like to remind you of what I have mentioned numerous times before, namely that the alchemical station should be cleaned after each use, especially when you are so careless with costic and toxic substances. I also recommend you refresh your elementary knowledge about the ingredients of healing concoction. Those are alcohol and sage, not poisonous plants and hearts. If this kind of negligence continues, I'll be forced to ask Father Vaughn to revoke your privileges to use the laboratory.
May the word of the prophet be your grace. Okay. Alcohol and sage. Try to make a small healing potion. This way we're supposed to go.
Laboratory key. Here we go. So, we can go back in there now.
Okay. Well, I'd like to go in.
Sure. Oh, we've already been over here. We just got there a different way previously, right? Can I make any healing potions then since I have just uh learned how to do all this stuff? Yes, I can. And mana potions as well.
[Music] Okay. So, there's lots of different ways you can make stuff here. Well, okay, this is a mana potion, but yeah, sure.
Make all these things.
[Music] Okay. Alchemy skill ups too. All right. Very good.
[Music] been in those areas before already. Door is locked from the inside.
Cannot go through there.
Another side [Music] passage. Place is in quite the uh disrepair, I must say. Wait, I've already been over here.
been here.
[Music] Yeah. Yeah. Place has quite the uh problem with the holes in the walls everywhere and the roots coming through stuff. Wait, are you you're friendly? You're the friendly guy. Yeah.
You took your sweet time, eh? But I understand. I did too when I was leaving this place for the first time. You have to admit that the red priests are quite resourceful, at least when it comes to death and dying.
Who are you? Great question, truly. But in case you hadn't noticed, we're still within the walls of the island asylum.
When we're out, then we can talk. I'm told this path leads to the beach. I'll wait for you there until dusk. Good luck.
Okay. So, going to help me get off the island, I suppose.
Hopefully. A bow.
[Music] Still can't make stuff. We're missing like one ingredient on those [Music] If I go down here, I'm not sure I can get back up in. Yeah, I really can't. But there's definitely some stuff down here. Hello.
Stay back. I may not be in top shape, but I can tear you to pieces if I have to.
Uh, it's still okay. I'm not with the priests. So, you escaped, too. They're having quite a day. Good. I hope it gets even worse. This whole place is mad from a safe distance this time.
Bit of a voice line skip there. Um, did the weirdness give you immunity to the red death?
Why do you think you can torture it out of me, too? I didn't choose the gifts I was given. I accept whatever the weirdness is willing to give. I promise I hold no secrets to curing the red death. No matter how deep you cut, you can't gouge them out of me. Not sure what this is referring to cuz it skipped it, but uh devour them.
Why do you say that? They play with powers they don't understand. Trying to wrangle the weirdness into obedience is a fool's dream. The weirdness might listen, but blind obedience is not in its nature.
But how'd you get caught? Same as you, I guess. Wrong time, wrong place. I was wandering through Kun and got caught in an outbreak. I was kept with the rest at first, but when they figured out I was a pig. Well, then I deserved special treatment. One of the priests took me to a place so thick with weirdness, it it scared me. I needed to get away otherwise. I don't know what would have happened. I just know whatever it was, it wasn't for me.
Well, uh, here. Have a potion. I guess I have plenty. It should, although I admit that the past few weeks have made me hate the taste. Still, thank you. There isn't much kindness going around this place. It wouldn't be very gracious of me not to repay it, would it? Take this. It might prove useful for you.
Oh, is that the key?
Maybe. Okay.
Um. Ooh, a lesser mana ring is what I got. All right. Mana regen. No, just increases max mana.
Okay, that's pretty significant. Looks like it's about maybe a quarter or a fifth of my total mana.
So yeah, 10 mana is pretty significant.
At least for right now, it is. Holy. Okay, this is where they're dumping everything down to. They're dumping the bodies. I'm sure this is a wonderful smell down here.
Phew. Really want to see what's down here. Nope. Gail key. Um.
[Music] Whoa. I think maybe I shouldn't have not I should have not done that.
You suffer your sins.
Oh boy.
[Music] Not good.
[Music] You'll suffer for your sins. I think he's stuck.
You'll suffer for your sins.
Well, we're cheesing this guy.
We got [Music] him. Athletes pride in a thorn helmet. Okay, we got the athletes pride in a thorn helmet. Two armor receiving melee damage returns five physical damage back to the attacker. All right.
What's the other item I got? Is it this?
Yeah. No. Yeah. Here we go. Oh, max stamina.
Okay. Hopefully some more cool stuff down here. Was he cooking somebody?
Man, you're just cooking this dude over your campfire. I guess you wouldn't really cook him at that height. You probably or that distance. You probably just keep them warm. Some garlic. Hey, cabbage. I can make some of that cabbage stew now. Nice.
What the hell is this guy doing down here?
Maybe I don't know. Maybe he uh got tossed down here and then he's been living down here or something. I don't know. It's really weird what he's doing down here. Okay, I think we're I think we're good though. Gets everything.
[Music] H. I wonder where this goes to. It's that door that was locked from the inside. Yeah, I got through it now.
I suppose I can make some cabbage soup now. Cabbage rolls, not cabbage soup.
Okay.
But yes, either way or else. Yeah, we already went down this way. Okay, so I guess we go this way now.
Yeah, I assume these mushrooms are used for something.
Whoa, that's a master. Jesus Christ, you scared the [ __ ] out of me. Oh my god, dude. I was not ready.
I'm running. We're kiting. We're kiting and shooting.
It seems effective. Bit of drop off on that. At least it seems like Got him.
Phew. Okay, man. I was not I was not expecting. I was looking at this. I was like, "Oh, what is all this?" And then the guy was right there.
Scared the crap out of me.
Ah, commentary to Brother Houston's underground [Music] wonders. Contrary to brother Houston's view that the lower level of the island asylum is merely a confined vault system under the building complex, it seems endless. I even suspect it spans the island and reaches beyond. While Brother Houston's explorations are commendable, he was too ready to view dead ends as final. My research, however, has repeatedly confirmed that many passages he marked as closed off were buried tunnels extending deeper. As our doctrine teaches, persistence brings results, and we've been rewarded. At the end of one such tunnel, dismissed as a dead end, we found a vast chamber in its center, a men here, a remarkable monument. This men here is truly an underground wonder, potentially revolutionizing our understanding of these statues. Check over here first before we go over there.
burn this off or anything? Doesn't look like it.
Weird plasm notes of brother Father Vad third of rowan moon 442. This four dweller diarama unsettles me. Why does it look so dead? Previous depictions showed living beings in this skull so similar to ours. It's eerie. It resembles a men here. Yet menirers were supposedly raised by Merlin. But how could ancient fore dwellers foresee what Merlin would create? At last, proof Merlin didn't create the menirs. We found one buri buried in the labyrinth. Brother Hugar is studying it now. If we the first to explore the aisle of the dead's depths, Merlin couldn't have invented the menes.
This truth will shake Avalon's faith in that old charlatan. The word of prophet Kai shall finally prevail.
[Music] [Music] Can I make a bridge here? It's just telling me there is a bridge there. Okay, before I go across there, what's over this way then though? Simple short bow.
kind of a point of no return here. But I do want to go down here. I feel like that's the way we're supposed to go back there. So I want to see what's over here. H. We are sneaking. I guess that means we're near somebody. Usually you have to be near an enemy while sneaking.
in order to um get skill ups and sneaking, you know. If I can break this down. Doesn't seem so.
more of this weird plasm. Oh, hello running [Music] [Music] away. I missed him there.
Whoa. No. Okay, good.
Okay, got him.
What in the heck is this then? Brother Hugar's diary. The question remains, is there significance to this men here having three arms, not four? How could we examine it without touching it? Poor Father Abe touched it with bare hands and vanished as though he never existed.
Shocked, the Pope forbade anyone from touching it again. Still, I hear it whispering my name. I know I should report it, but I don't want to. Someday I'll answer its call and claim it was Kai, even if it wasn't. I need to know. That's not ominous or anything.
[Music] I should have gone across before doing [Music] this.
Uh, it's kind of trippy, honestly.
Seeing the uh clouds move makes me feel a little bit disoriented. Like whenever you look at uh water moving, you know, it feels like you're moving but you're not. Gives that same kind of feeling.
Brother Abe, he got stuck here. I [Music] guess it's not here.
[Music] [Music] That's creepy. Creepy kid's glowing [Music] eyes. Creepy as hell.
Who am I?
[Music] Is it a ship down there? Yeah, it's like a beached ship. This is like uh parts and pieces of different areas mashed together somehow.
I don't want to fall off. That would probably be bad.
[Music] though. There is like a little walkway down there. I'm not sure if that's just decorative or if we can actually go down there.
I kind of want to know. This feels like one of those games where you should explore, peace, fear, and the mountain. Yeah, we can actually hear him now.
It feels like one of those games where you should explore like every inch, you know, really really look around. Well, this is pretty These are all presumably probably alchemy ingredients. So sure, I will take them.
Take what we can now. I'm supposed to go over here, I think.
But there's all kinds of raspberries and stuff here. Food here.
Just going to spam me and take all the things.
[Music] [Music] H. I get agility just from jumping.
[Music] [Music] Give me all the raspberries. I really want to go over there, but I doubt we can. Lighting in this is really pretty.
Some spots. I just saw something, but I can't know what it was. Okay. I don't think I can get down there without probably killing myself.
So, don't think we're meant to go down there. I think we're supposed to just go over [Music] here and touch the pretty blue [Music] thing. I have been waiting a long time for someone to find me. Are you here to help me leave this place?
I mean, what is this place? I do not know. I think it is some kind of prison deep in the weirdness.
Why are you here? And you, why are you here?
I was transported here by a morbid statue. Yeah. A men here that would explain the weirdness surrounding us.
What are you? I wish I could answer. I cannot remember. I know I am not complete.
I remember I once knew who I was at some point, but I do not anymore. I just am. But walk with me. Let's find out together now that I'm free.
Okay.
I remember arriving on the shores of Avalon. That was the beginning of everything. But there were doubts and questions. How does it feel to leave your homeland behind? To keep moving forward, even though every step takes you into the unknown. The fordwellers quickly made it clear to us. If we wanted to call this place home, we'd have to fight for it down to the last drop of blood. So someone was imprisoned here in the weirdness.
[Music] [Music] The forebears are fighting regular humans. Those are the big guys. The forebears, it looks like.
In the end, we won the war.
Merlin stole the sacred flame of the fordwellers and ignited the men, driving away the mist and clearing the knights of weirdness. It was the first time we uncovered the secrets hidden within the men.
So they fought the forebears, won the war by activating the meners. Somehow Merlin activated them is my understanding from what he's [Music] saying. He discovered their secrets.
[Music] It's that same or similar statue. I'm then here.
Still, the land of Avalon honored our toil. It soaked up our sweat, our suffering, and our blood. In time, it rewarded us. Here in Avalon, we were given the chance to create great things. Camelot, the eternal castle, the capital of all humankind, was meant to be a symbol of that. Is that what we're looking at? But it's like all fragmented and pulled into the weirdness here.
[Music] [Music] It's like the land's been all pulled apart, fragmented.
We left the homelands to survive. The plague had consumed ever
