[1] 2025 Fantasy Football Draft Rankings & Tiers | Early-Round Must-Have Targets & Busts to Avoid — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOGzOTM_ovw

Hello friends and welcome in to Fantasy Pros. This is the Fantasy Football Podcast. I'm Chris Welsh and today we are digging into some ranks. Yeah, it's early in the year, but it doesn't mean we're not talking about the big dogs. We have got your top 75 overall ranks. We're going to be going through it via the Fantasy Pros ECR expert consensus ranks, all of our amazing rankers, creating one big old glob of amazing rankness. Well, we're going to look at the impact, what could possibly be wrong, and we'll be comparing it against the great and powerful Andrew Ericson and Pat Fitz Morris here as we go through the entire litany of it. Ericson, I ask you this question real quick. Is it too early to be digging heavily this much into like reddraft overall ranks? No, it is not too early because you see a lot of carryover from these rankings that go into baseball rankings. And it's funny, I think I was writing an article for the site and I typed in early rankings and then I thought to myself, is this early? Well, I think early was like February rankings when we were putting stuff out. So, we're in May. Summer is just around the corner. This is the time to be in the weeds digging really deep and then adjusting everything after preseason usage. So again, we need to stick to our priors and come back to, oh, this is where we stood in the when we were doing the research, doing the math, and not being, you know, pulled in a bad direction by, oh well, this guy played all the snaps at the preseason with the starters. Don't be swayed. You know, Fitzy, a really interesting experiment would be would be to like look at what the ranks look like right now and then watch the crazy preeason stuff, you know, where everyone's reacting to one guy getting two snaps and 30 yards and then look at the ranks right before like all the major draft weekends happen and see what it looks like. Because what I'm getting at is like, you know, with what we're seeing today versus your ranks versus ECR, do you expect there to be some big crazy volatility still going to happen or do you think this is going to really have like a nice uh shelf life that might even get people paired back down of the craziness of preseason? I mean, there will be some players where we see rankings volatility. Welsh, there always is with training camp news, uh, injury stuff, or even just like depth chart speculation. a coach says something in a particular interview that makes it sound like he's super high on a player or maybe a little sour on a player and that like moves the needle for ADP and ECR. So, we will see things like that, but um you know, it's never too early. We got to get the jump on all those uh people in our leagues who don't pay attention to football news until after the 4th of July. That's right. This is a trick question. It's never too early and that's why we're here for you and that's why we've got all the amazing tools here at Fantasy Pros and these ECR ranks that we're going to be talking about. You can go and do your own research. fantasypros.com/rankings half PPR, full PPR, Dynasty, Superflex, whatever it is that you've got, we've got those ranks and the ECR's got you covered where you can see who has them the highest, who's got them the lowest, the individual rankers. There's a lot of customization you can do with it. fantasypros.com/rankings if you want to check it out for yourself. But we've got you guys covered right here because we are going to bring up the big boards. We are going to go in groupings of 15. Not that you guys play in a bunch of 15. It's a little bit of a baseball thing playing in 15 team leagues, but we're going to go in those groupings of 15. I will list them out and then both of our fine gentlemen here, our analysts are going to uh talk about some differences they have in their own personal ranks versus ECR because again this isn't their ranking but their rankings do uh make a important piece to how this ECR comes out. So going over to the big board, we're looking at 1 through 15. Jamar Chase is your leader at the tippy top here. Wide receiver coming in at number one, followed by Saquon Barkley at two. Bejon, Justin Jefferson, Jamir Gibbs, CD Lamb. That is tier one. So that is the tier one that is identified by all of our rankers of the big core players, which you've got uh three running backs and three wide receivers. Funny enough, 7 through 15, Puka Nakua, Aman, St. Brown, Malik Neighbors, Ashton Genty coming in at 10, followed by Nico Collins, Brian Thomas, Derrick Henry, Devon Achan, and Brock Bowers. So we've got some interesting ones in there. Let's start with the rookie. And Pat, let's start with you then real quick. Ashton Genty, ECR SE uh 10. How much higher can he go? We've gone down this road before. I think everyone is going to test the rankings. I think it was maybe you and me with Jake Cely where we were really pushing it earlier in the season or maybe it was me and Ericson. Uh where it was like how high can Ashen Genty go? How much higher do you think he can go in your own personal ranks and what is maybe the ceiling of what uh draft season he can get pushed to? I have him at seven overall Welsh and I would be I have him at seven overall Welsh and I wouldn't be surprised if he got as high as four or five depending on how things go in in training camp and the preeason. Um, I went back and looked at the Fantasy Pros historical ADP from 2017, the year Saquin Barkley entered the league. Saquin's rookie year ADP was seventh overall behind Todd Gurley, Le'Veon Bell, David Johnson, Ezekiel Elliott, Antonio Brown, and Alvin Chimera. Hard to believe that was only eight years ago, huh? Saquon and Chimera are the only ones still around. Um, but Saquon paid off on that seventh overall ADP. He had 228 yards from scrimmage, 15 touchdowns as a rookie. He finished as the RB 2 and a half point PPR, just 2.3 points behind leader Todd Gurley. I don't need to wait until the back end of the first round of draft Ashton Genty just because he hasn't compiled any sort of NFL resume yet. We know the prospect profile is extraordinary, just like it was with Saquon Barkley eight years ago. Um, Genty is positioned for a big big workload with the Raiders. His play caller is going to be Chip Kelly who operates at a fast pace. My only real concern is that the Raiders weren't a very good run blocking team last year. They ranked 30th in the league in adjusted line yards. But then again, the Giants ranked 29th in adjusted line yards in Saquon's rookie season and he did okay for himself that year. Erikson, true or false? Ashen Genty is RB4 at the end of this year. False because I he finished as a top three running back. I set you up. I knew I knew it was coming up. A real We're not talking about him on on your list here, but where do you have Genty? I have him five. So, I I want him on my fantasy team. I I when I do a lot of these rankings for 2025, I'm thinking about, okay, who are we drafting at the top of 2026, isn't it not Ashen Genty? Wouldn't he be one of the best candidates to be? Who's the 101 next season? Yeah, maybe it's not perfect in week one for Ashen Genty. He's a rookie, but we've seen not only receivers hit the ground running, but it's always rookie running backs, especially ones that are drafted this highly. Again, it's a little bit of a throwback where we don't usually see running backs go this high in the NFL draft nowadays, but when we do, when we see a guy go sixth overall, we have to take advantage of this is a rare special player and the Raiders recognize that. They have a ton of needs on their team, they're like, "Nah, we're going to take the best running back. He's the best player." And obviously, running back was a need for them as well, but they could have gone another direction. They could have drafted another offensive lineman, but they didn't. They're like, "We want Ashen Genty." And I think having stability at quarterback with Gino Smith, I think that's helpful. He's someone that's going to dump the ball off to Ashen Genty. So, I think the wheels are up. And I want youth. I want the young Buck on my team to finish the season strong. So, give me Ashen Genty and his 350 touches. Let's get spicy here for a minute. Let's let's cause some comments to uh pop up in the in the YouTube video because let's talk about Saquon Barkley, ECR number two. So, he is the number one running back according to all of the aggregate uh analysts. Number two, so number one running back, number two overall. Not for Mr. Andrew Ericson. Andrew Ericson. I know the answer to this, but let's hear it. Saquon Barkley or Ashton Genty this year? I'm drafting Ashton Genty. I'm not drafting Saquon Barkley and I have him ranked at 10. you. I'm not going to argue if he should be 10, nine, eight, seven. I don't think that he should be the number one running back ranked. I don't think he should be the number one overall pick ranked because he's coming off a season where he touched the ball nearly 500 times. And this is a process play for me. Chasing the running back that led the NFL in touches the year before is essentially the kiss of death for running backs the following year. We just saw it this past year with Chris McAffrey. Year before that, Josh Jacobs fell off a cliff. Only two running backs have finished as RB1's the following year after leading the NFL in touches since 2013. And Ezekiel Elliott is the only one over that entire time frame to do it and finish inside the top five backto-back seasons. So even if Sewin finishes top five, he's still not number one. So I'm just going with the process play. I get that if he stays healthy, I'm probably going to be wrong, especially if they ban the Tushbush and Squarkly scores 20 touchdowns. But just based on what we've seen historically, based on the trends that I think hold some weight as we are projecting these players into the future, I'm just going to fade Saquon. And uh that's my that's my strategy. Pat, uh Genty or Barkley for you. I've got Barkley ranked higher right now. I've got him two behind Bjan. No, I totally get it, Ericson. I mean, 482 touches last year if you include playoffs, age 28. I totally get it. But I guess the one thing I would say in Saquon's defense is that he probably does have the best offensive ecosystem of any running back in the league. Very interesting. Very interesting for all of you want to know. Genty or Barkley comments drop them for the overall ranks. Uh little bit of a different not as much of a difference as you would potentially think from two to 10 here. Uh let's go Pat. You got another one in the top 10 here that I think is really interesting. We're back into seeing or top 15. We're seeing uh a tight end. A tight end is pushing back. ECR 15. You got Brock Bowers even higher though. First round tight ends always make my stomach queasy. Brock Bowers doesn't quite do it. But uh you're pushing him higher than ECR 15 overall. How much higher? 12th overall. And I do think Brock Bower should go at the turn in 12 team drafts. Uh Travis Kelce used to go late in the first round in most fantasy drafts. And while I personally was not a first round Travis Kelce guy, I totally understood it. Tight end is always such a problematic position and Kelsey was an emphatic solution to that problem. Here's the thing. I think it's even easier to justify Bowers as a firstrounder in 2025 than it was with Kelsey a few years ago. Um Bowers played most of his rookie season at the age of 21. He had 112 catches and almost 1,200 yards receiving. Even though the Raiders had one of the worst QB situations in the league. Uh Bowers finished third among all pass catchers and receptions. That includes wide receivers. He was behind only Jamar Chase and Aman Ross St. Brown as a tight end at age 21. And now the Raiders have an aggressive downfield thrower in Gino Smith. And again, we have the Chip Kelly factor. Fast pace, a lot of plays. And by the way, Zack Herz had some pretty good years under Chip Kelly when they were in Philly together back in the day. So, yes, I I do think Powers is a clear tier above anyone else at tight end. I love George KD, but he's getting older and his usage can kind of vary from game to game. A lot of times they just use him more as a blocker. Uh Bowers is faster than Trey McBride. Had a much better college career. doesn't have the touchdown allergy like McBride does. So, I I really think you can make a strong case for Bowers being a back end of the first round tight end. Pretty cool uh wheel you could do in a 12 team league. You got Brian Thomas and Brock Bowers. That's a pretty good start. Uh which I think most of us would be relatively comfortable with unless you don't like tight ends. So, Erikson, I guess really the only thing is is does uh does Brock Powers belong in the first round? It's a loaded loaded question. Bel of course has he blowing the first round. So I have him right outside. So I'm pretty close to ECR. So I have him at 16. So fully fading Brock Bowers. Not that's not that's not really the case here because I think that Fitz lays out a really good point just how talented Brock Bowers is situation. I felt better about being lower on Bowers when it wasn't Gino Smith as the quarterback, but then when they landed him like man like this is like a really good spot for Brock Bowers because at least you could have made the argument, well it's going to be bad quarterback play again. Can he do it again? but he's got Gino Smith, so I feel good about that. And I feel I think it's really more about just how you're attacking the tight end position. It's not that I want to fade Bowers. It's more or less I want to draft late round tight end. Like that's the strategy I want to go with. And I know last year Bowers obviously was a late round tight end and you talk about yes, some of the early tight ends hit um such as like a Trey McBride, but some of the early round tight ends were also really bad last year. And if you had gone early round tight end, what did that mean? You missed out on Brock Bowers potentially as a rookie. missed out on Janu Smith who finishes the tight end four. So I don't always loved pigeon holeing myself like Brock Bar is my tight end. I'm locked and loaded. I'm not going late round tight end. I'm not going to the waiver wire for a tight end. So that's the only hesitance I have about him. But I don't have any problem with his rank and where he is. But the reason for not picking him where he is going in drafts or in ECR, which is because hey, I like the receivers here. I like this receiver running back pairing and I'm going to take tight end. I'm going to punt off the position. Uh the top of the wide receivers in the first round for um Erikson's last one. They're they're pretty interesting. Obviously Jamar Chase is kind of back. Justin Jefferson has reestablished. CD Lamb, that one kind of stands out. ECR6, you definitely could see there's more upside. And Erikson, you've got him higher amazingly. He is one of very very few players that you have above Ashton Genty. Uh different position of course, but CD Lamb, you're higher than ECR. What's your take on uh I mean is this a potential number one? Like could you see CD Lamb overtaking even Jamar Chase this year? Yeah, I think it is because who are we d who was the consensus number one receiver last year? I had Chase but ECR had CD Lamb. So So what happened between this year and last year where oh well now cuz Lamb got hurt, Dak got hurt. Well now CD Lamb can't be wide receiver one. We saw him have a monster season in 2023 with a healthy Dak Prescott. He's getting Dak Prescott back. Now I get Dak has been banged up. He's been dealing with injuries. He's getting older. But when Brian Shanahhammer was the offensive play caller, 2023, that's the year we saw Dak and CD Lamb explode. So my I wanted to point this out because I can't rank Justin Jefferson ahead of CD Lamb because I know who Dak Prescott is and I don't know who JJ McCarthy is as an NFL quarterback and that concerns me. So for ECR to have Justin Jefferson ahead of CD Lamb, it's just kind of like, well, last year it wasn't like this. And we had question marks about Jefferson. And I mean, if Dak Prescott hadn't gotten injured, I think Lamb would have finished inside the top three because he was playing pretty well the first seven games with Dak Prescott. Top five fantasy numbers per game. So yeah, I I like CD Lamb a lot. I think that he's being dis dis uh he's coming at a discount, I think. So Fitzy, CD Lamb or Justin Jefferson? Oh man, I've got it neck and neck right now. I do have Jefferson ranked a little bit higher. I'm not as worried about the McCarthy the the quarterback factor as Erikson is, but like you can absolutely I have no beef whatsoever with taking CD Lamb ahead of Justin Jefferson. And if faced with that choice, I think I would want to split it up like 50/50. Oh yeah. If you were if you were like consolidating 10 drafts, you're trying to have just different shares of it. Well, it's a very interesting question. One that we are going to watch in ECR as we get closer to draft season. We've got the next 15 coming up. But first, it's officially the best time of the year for hoops fans. Playoff drama, buzzer beers, all the chaos we live for. And if you're done just watching and ready to actually win some cash, you got to check out Pick Six from DraftKings. Nobody's dropping better payouts than Pick Six. Hit six picks and that's 25 times your cash. And if you beat your competition, you could be looking at a 500x bag in your pocket. It's super simple. Just select your picks, track your score, and go for those big-time prizes. No gimmicks, just straight up fun. Pick Six is live in most states like Missouri, California, Texas, Georgia, and plenty more. So, yeah, don't settle for weak payouts. Make your picks with Pick Six and let your basketball brain pay off. New to DraftKings Pick Six? New customers? Toss in just $5 on your first entry and you'll get $50 in bonus picks instantly. The playoffs are on, so why not take a shot at making a little more money while you're watching. Download DraftKings Pick Six app right now and use code fantasy pros. That's code fantasy pros to play $5 and get 50 in bonus picks. Better payouts, bigger wins only on Pick Six from DraftKings. The crown is yours. Gentlemen, let's go. Picks 16 through 30, the next 15 here. And we are going to kick it off with my boy Christian McCaffrey falling all the way down at 16. That is RB7 on the list. AJ Brown, Bucky Irving, Drake London, Josh Jacobs. So that rounds out your top 20. Starting at 21, we've got Jonathan Taylor, Lad Mani, Trey McBride, Josh Allen, Lamar Jackson. So we got two quarterbacks at 24-25. Kairen Parish, Jackson Smith, and Jigba. And this moves us into a tier four, which includes Chase Brown, T. Higgins, and Tyreek Hill. That is 16 through 30 in some degree. Uh second, third round picks for most in fantasy. Erikson, why don't we uh start with you here? And we're talking about a wide receiver in Drake London, ECR19. There's a uh let's see, what is he? Uh wide receiver 10 on this list, which is pretty good uh setup, but you've got him quite a bit higher. So much so, he's a firstround pick for you this season. So, let's hear the rank on Drake London and why he's so high. So, I have Drake London my 11th ranked overall player and it's because I love his red zone potential with Michael Penn. you know, talking about how Jamar Chase last year, what could we have seen when we're trying to project him? Why what made me so bullish on him being the wide receiver won in 2024? And it was because the guy commanded a high level of red zone targets. And when you look historically at who is the number one receiver in fantasy football every single year, it's the guy, okay, you score the most points of course, but it's the guy who sees the most red zone targets. And all Drake London has done since entering the NFL besides having mostly horrible quarterback play is is command red zone targets. Over the last three seasons, he has led the NFL and wide receivers in red zone target rate. So basically whenever they're in the red zone, he has the highest rate of being targeted. So last year, end of the year, 23 red zone targets. That tie for the third most among all wide receivers. And he's also a target hog, third highest target rate per outr run at 30%. with Michael Penn as his quarterback last year. He was targeted on 41% of his routes run. Look, I get Michael Penn was a bit of an incomplete. We didn't see a full season out of him, but if he takes that next step entering year two as the full-time entrenched starter, the team is obviously very behind him as the number one guy. I think Drake London could be a top three, if not the number one overall receiver, if he works well when it comes to touchdowns because I think that's what his ceiling is. I think that he could score 15 touchdowns attached to Michael Pennock. So again, the only thing I could see going against this would be if Bejian ends up getting all the touchdowns. Either way, I both I like the RB1 for the Falcons and I like the wide receiver one for the Falcons. So that's why I'm really bullish on Drake London. Fitz, let me take a different take on asking you about Drake London. It it's I feel like we've had quite a few years of heavy wide receiver, heavy wide receiver valuations. This year it's pretty interesting on ECR. It's almost split RB to wide receiver. And maybe I'm like if I were looking at previous years, it would be a little bit weighted later, but uh through the top 20, there are nine running backs through the top 20. The only thing breaking it from being a complete spit split is Brock Bowers. So you have nine running backs, you've got 11 wide receivers and one tight end. Do you think the idea of Drake London at 11 is okay if you put prioritization more in wide receivers than running backs, which seems to be happening maybe a little bit. there's like a slight little resurgence of running back value popping back up or do you think that we should be valuing running backs a little bit higher which pushes a guy like Drake London uh back a little bit? You know, I think the reason for that phenomenon is that we had this unusual circumstance last year of running backs staying extraordinarily healthy and having great injury luck. So all these guys who were drafted as running back twos really like popped and and gave us almost like running back one production. like we it was a really good year for like top 25 running backs and uh I I think that's reflected this year and last year there were wide receivers getting hurt at a a really crazy clip. So that's kind of why it's happening. Um I I think London is absolutely worthy of being drafted close to the turn. Uh I'm not quite as high as Erikson, but I'm uh higher on him than ECR. So kind of splitting the difference. I think I've got him 15th overall. And um yeah, I you know, I'm a I'm a Kirk Cousins hater and I love Michael Penn, so I absolutely think this sets up really well for Drake London. Well, unfortunately, that awesome resurgence of running back injuries did not float over to the one guy that we're going to talk about in Christian McCaffrey. He would be the one that really got smacked with it, but it is an all-time value and you have all-time running back value popping up here. He is ECR16, so that is a second round pick if you want to invest. But Pat, you don't seem too excited about investing. You are a bit lower on Christian McCaffrey than the consensus. Is it all related to you do you not think he will stay healthy and he's not going to be on the field or is there something more? No, it's pretty much that. Welsh and uh yeah, I'm I didn't even count Christian McAffrey as as part of that uh trend of good health for running backs because we didn't even have Christian McCaffrey at the beginning of the season. Uh, so many drafters got ba burned so badly and I think the 49ers kind of showed us last year that they can't be trusted to be forthright about McCaffry's health or or lack thereof. So, um, McCaffrey is about to turn 29. He's missed six or more games in five of the last seven years. He's missed nine or more games in four of the last seven years. Um, I think McCaffrey can be a worthwhile risk if you are in a league full of sharks. um because you might need to take some some risk to have a chance to um you know topple the sharks. But if you are one of the sharks, McAffrey is not a risk worth taking because when you're a shark, your emphasis in the first two rounds should be on avoiding the bear traps. And with his injury history, McCaffrey is definitely a potential bear trap. Erikson, call me a guppy because I see Christian McAffrey in the second round and I am swimming over there. But I get it. He's becoming a little bit of the Mike Trout of uh of football right now with injuries. But what what say you Ericson? Where are you at on Christian McCaffrey? Break my hopes and throw me in the pond when you tell me he's going to be outside your top 25 or something. No, he is not outside my top 25. He is someone we talked about McCaffrey on the draft or past show, myself, Joe Pisipia, and Dro. And he was a guy I was drafting. I I love taking him in the second round because yes, we faded him last year because he was coming off all the touches. Well, this year he's coming off 60 touches or 65 touches, whatever, the lowest of his NFL career. He's never come off a season with less work and tear on his tires. He's super healthy now. He didn't even play last year. He's great. So, I think that from what you get from a per game basis with him, Kyle Shanahan can say whatever. Like, the guy can't help himself. He sees CMC on the fields like need to give this guy 30 touches no matter what. And you know, that's not good for CMC's long-term value and health, but when he's on the field, I mean, he's going to be in weekly rank. Where are we going to rank him in week one? Week one rankings. He's not going to be outside the top 13. I can tell you that much. So, when he's again, it all is a health question. There's a reason why. Again, I still haven't ranked below Saquon. Even though I'm lower on Saquon, I wouldn't take him over Saquon Barkley because I'm playing the injury card with Barkley as well, but he's coming off a healthy season. So, I I will stop the Saquon fade at McAffrey. But, right, if Barkley's gone, like McAffrey is the next running back I'm looking for. And I I love getting the discount round. Could we have a moment from the crow? This is only old people are going to get it where we fire it up. If you get CD Lamb in the second round, you get Christian McCaffrey. Can we just have an alltime fire it up roster? I mean, those were two top three picks last year. Yeah. And you get both on your team. All right. Well, you know, we don't come at me when he's injured again. I get it. I just I can't No kidding. Just alert the European doctors so they can be ready to have McAffrey into top shape for the 2020. Yeah. Who knows what they did over in Germany. He might have new calves and stuff like that. Everything might be new. Germany, they'd make a great car and probably make great uh calves for football players or whatever he had done. Uh let's uh Eric, let's go to another running back. We talked a lot about him last year on the shows that we were doing. Chase Brown. Chase Brown comes in with an ECR of 28. He's actually the top of tier 4. So, so far, as you've seen, it took 27 players to have three tiers of value on ECR. Again, fantasypros.com/rankings if you want to see what those look like. Those are uh you know just kind of globs of like these guys are in general spaces of value whether you want to maybe move to different positional stuff but Chase Brown starts off the next tier at tier 4 at 28 but you have him higher. You actually have him as a second round pick. So let's talk about how many picks higher as far as ECR rank goes and why you've got him so high. So I have him at number 23 and it's because it's Chase Brown Sizen is it's full go. I'm not sure. I'm I'm not concerned about, you know, the current state of this backfield where you have Saj Pine, you have Zach Moss coming off a season ending neck injury and they drafted Taj Brooks in round six and he's really good in pass protection. Okay, great. Chase Brown when he was the bellcow for the Bengals last year, RB5 in points per game, RB1 expected points per game. Basically, no running back had better usage or better deployment to score fantasy points than Chase Brown did. So, can I guarantee he's gonna have the same role? No. But I can tell you that within his range of outcomes, he has a ceiling that he outscores every other running back. And to get that guy in the start of round three, end of round two, I want him all day, every day. Again, I I see Chase Brown as you know what we've seen years past with Kairen. We're thinking, "Oh man, someone's going to get more involved. He's going to break down." We've seen Chase Brown at Illinois be a workhorse. Last year be a workhorse. What are we going to see in 2025? Chase Brown be a workhorse in arguably one of the best offenses in the NFL. So, I am all go on Chase Brown and I'm not really concerned about the rest of these depth pieces in the back field. So, I want a lot of him on my teams. Pat, you let's say you go um tight end, wide receiver. Let's say you get Bowowers and you get a wide receiver and you tell yourself you want a running back in the third round, Kairen Williams or Chase Brown. Chase Brown without without hesitation. Yeah. I mean, there's never going to be any push back from me on on Chase Brown love. Um, you know, I do think it's possible they dial back the workload a bit this year. Um, now that they've got other options, Taj Brooks, and I don't know, maybe we we see Zack Moss a little bit. But, um, yeah, I mean, Chase Brown just showed last year he's really good and he's playing in one of the best offenses in the league. One of the most polarizing players, not M. Christian McCaffrey, I'd probably say of this list that we're talking about, this would be the second most polarizing player, is Tyreek Hill. And I think he is going to vary across the board of um some people might even make excuses to get him back into the first round for the big playability. He comes in at ECR30 here, but Tyreek Hill is pushed much further down for you, Mr. Pat Fitz Morris. Um is this built around the the offense? Is this built around Wadd? Is this built around, you know, his deterioration as a player? Or D, is it all the above? So, talk to us about how far down Tyreek Hill is on your ranks compared to ECR. Kind of all the above, Welsh. I just I want no part of 31-year-old Tyreek Hill. Coming off a bad year, playing with a Dolphins team that seems like it could be on the way down. I mean, sure, it's possible Tyreek's disappointing 2024 season was just a mirage, and he he goes right back to being the 1700 yard guy he was in 2022 and 2023. But it's also possible that 2024 was just the beginning of the end. Uh, and I don't really want to pay a mid third round price to to find out. Nor do I really want my third rounders productivity to be tied to the health of to a tongue of Ailoa. Um, the relationship between Tyreek and the Dolphins doesn't seem great these days. I'm just not really interested in drafting Tyreek unless I get a major discount and it looks like I'm not going to get a major discount based on ECR. Erikson, you and I have an interesting relationship with the Dolphins last year. If people watch on betting pros and our Tyreek Hill, more Jaylen Wadd than anything. Is it Jaylen Wadd season and are we letting go of Tyreek Hill or are you still back in? I am passing on Tyreek Hill. It was another player we talked about on the draft or past show and Tyreek Hill was very low on my priority list. And Fitz laid out some of the concerns as as did you. An older player coming off a very bad season. Even when Tuo was healthy last year, he still underperformed versus expectation. Then you have the outburst at the end of the year where he wants to move move from the team. He has this wrist injury thing that he's dealing with. How many more red flags we need to to see here with Tyreek Hill where it's like maybe we should, you know, take our foot off the gas pedal just a little bit. But to Fitz's point, he's also still Tyreek Hill. Like he's someone that you he's always goes in the first round as one of the first receivers drafted. So when people see the name, I think, oh, I want to click on Tyreek Hill by by the dip. But I mean, if the dip is now he's shipped off to another team and we don't know what his usage is going to be potentially, I I don't feel like dabbling. And and to be honest, too, I I do like Jaylen Wadd as kind of like a discount buy for no now it seems like the third year in a row. But I also am getting really bad vibes from this Dolphins. Is anyone going to be team if this team like totally tanks and like Daniel gets canned and it's just a whole rebuild like two they move on from him? So, this Dolphins team overall is starting to concern me as I just kind of look at them from a whole holistic standpoint. And I mean, is Tyreek Hill on the team in week 18 in 2025? What do you guys think? You think he's on the team still? I'm going to say I'm going to say no. I mean, is he on the team? Is he on the team week one? Yeah, there's just too many red flags with Tyreek to take him ECR30 for me. Okay, there you go. Uh, I actually think he might even be one of those guys, unless there's a a collective narrative across the industry. He could even move up a little bit if there's some positive vibe, positive talks in preseason and hey, he looks freshlegged and all of a sudden he goes up because of that talent. But I think you you're probably safer more than anything uh fading a bit. You guys can experiment with exactly where Tyreek Hill can go and all the players we've talked about with our draft simulator. You can finish a full mock draft against realistic opponents in just minutes. There's no waiting for picks. You can customize settings to match your exact league format. You can test different strategies. You can do that tight end, early, heavy, wide receiver, or heavy running back. And then you can see how your team's grade out instantly. And best of all, you can try it for free at fantasypros.com/mock. fantasypros.com/mock. Do it today. Test your skills. Get ready and get rolling with the Fantasy Pros Draft Simulator. Next 15 is up. Let's go to the big board. We are 31 through 45. Got another quarterback kicking us off here at 31. Jaden Daniels, followed by Mike Evans, Terry McLaren, Bree Hall, James Cook, Garrett Wilson, Devonte Adams, now with the Rams. Jaylen Herz, DJ Moore, George KD, Joe Mixon, Kenneth Walker, Rasheed Rice. That ends out tier four. Remember, tier four started at 28. So that's a big grouping. And then the last two do start off tier five, Z Flowers and Marvin Harrison Jr. So that is your 31 through 45. Uh Erikson, let's go to you and let's talk about Garrett Wilson. We've had a lot of conversations built around the running backs and how there could be some committee, but Garrett Wilson looking a little bit better. ECR 36 on this list, so that mid-tier 4, but you've got him quite a bit higher. So let's talk about that rank boost. I have Garrett Wilson at number 25 overall because I'm buying this Justin Fields connection potentially with Garrett Wilson. Again, former teammates at Ohio State. So, we saw Fields unlock a ceiling with DJ Moore in their season together in 2023 with the Chicago Bears. So yes, I think that Justin Fields, although he's not perfect as a passer, he's shown, hey, if I am hyperargeting one guy on the offense and and fluttering him with targets, then that guy can be a top six fantasy finisher. And Garrett Wilson, I know last year was really frustrating, but it was a career year for him. He was still a fantasy wide receiver, won last year despite sharing the the love of Aaron Rodgers with Devonte Adams in the second half of the season, which really hurt his numbers. But when you look at just targets, right? Garrett Wilson since entering the NFL, the only guys that have more targets than him are Devonte Adams, his his former teammate who we had to split again targets with the second half of last year and CD Lamb. That's it. And you look at this Jets depth chart behind Garrett Wilson, Josh Reynolds. Is this guy is Mason? We're getting excited about Mason Taylor who's the most Daltton Schultz tight end ever that just is a system produced tight end. And we're excited about him getting targets in this offense. It's gonna be the Garrett Wilson show. I get even if they're run heavy, I think Wilson's going to see flirt with a potential 30% target share. And I'm willing to to buy into that upside of a player that could see a boatload of targets from Justin Fields who again has unlocked a player before. So, I think he's too low because I think I love the talent and I think that maybe this is again another season of Garrett Wilson maybe with the best quarterback play of his career. Maybe that's a little bit about a stretch, but um I do think there is some upside here. Pat, I know these are two different play the different positions, but who will you have more shares of, Garrett Wilson or Breece Hall? And I asked that because Breece Hall on ECR is higher than Garrett Wilson. So, take out the positional thing there. Uh, who do you think you have more shares of? Garrett Wilson. No question. Um, Aaron Glenn has basically said he doesn't want to have a lead back. He wants a committee and people seem to be ignoring that with the ranking of Bruce Hall. And you know, like I'm not quite as high on Garrett Wilson as Erikson is, but I'm ahead of ECR on him for sure. Um, and like I might even be able to move Garrett Wilson a little higher than I have him right now. Like I've got him at at 30 um 34 and you know, like I have him behind T. Higgins and Terry McLaren and I do think there's a case that Wilson should be ahead of those guys. But T. Higgins has Joe Burrow as his QB. I trust Joe Burrow. Terry McLaren as Jaden Daniels. I I trust Jaden Daniels. Garrett Wilson is Justin Fields. I'm cautiously optimistic about Fields, but I don't have the same level of trust in him that I do with Burrow and Jaden Daniels. One wide receiver you have got higher than Garrett Wilson, and you've got quite a bit higher than Consensus is Mike Evans. Mike Evans comes in at ECR 32. Fitz, you've got him at 26. Uh he's aging like a fine wine, I suppose. So, talk to us about Mike Evans. Yeah, and that's it. Welsh. Uh he is getting a little older. He turns 32 in August. Maybe the the Tampa Bay offense isn't as sharp now that Liam Cohen has left for Jacksonville. I do still think Evans is a pretty lowrisk, high yield investment. Just had his 11th straight thousand-y season. Uh dramatic fashion at the end, getting it on on one of the last plays of the game. Even though he missed three games with a hamstring injury, which is really one of the only injuries this dude has ever had. Uh he's just been indestructible for the most part. 11 touchdowns in 14 games last year and Evans has had double digit TDs in four of the last five years. He averaged 2.52 yards per route run last season. That was actually a career best. So, I'm not worried about age. I'm not worried about target competition. I'm I'm not worried about the absence of Liam Cohen. I just want to keep betting on a player who pays off every freaking year. So, I'm going to keep drafting Mike Evans. Wasn't it Erikson? Remember we were talking about it when it happened? Didn't he like throw a huge pout when he didn't get it and then he got it and then he just like leave the field? Like it was alltime for Mike Evans. Uh let's do this. Rank these guys. Ericson. Garrett Wilson, Mike Evans, and Devonte Adams. Interesting names there. Okay, so I have it uh Garrett Wilson, Dvonte Adams, Mike Evans. Um, but they are all in the same and when I look at my tiers, they're all in the same uh tier three for me among receivers. Okay. I And I said Adams is interesting because Adams is 37 on ECR. So, he's the lowest of these wide receivers from an ECR perspective. Uh, Mike Evans being the highest of them and you've got Evans at the bottom of that list. Obviously, you're a Garrett Wilson guy. So, any just quick takes on Mike Evans? No, I mean I I don't hate Mike Evans. Again, I just have him ranked there just because maybe I like the upside case. I guess I'm willing to sacrifice the safety of Evans. Again, locked and loaded, 10,000 yards receiver every single year coming off such a career year in terms of efficiency. But I do want to kind of chase a little bit of that ceiling with Garrett Wilson. And again, is Mike Evans going to stay healthy all year? Decent amount of target competition in Tampa Bay with Godwin, the two young receivers McMillan and Ebuka coming in as a first round pick. So, and Evans too to his to his style. He does have a little boomer bust to his game where he disappears for some time, but then he blows up at a 30-point game, which especially in reddraft, I was thinking about it. He's one of those guys where your opponent has him. You're like a sweat goes down your forehead. You're like, "Oh no, not my does he have a thousand yards yet? Am I safe?" So, so I do like that. But from a consistency standpoint, I think Garrett Wilson, I mean, I think he could see double digit targets every single week with the Jets. So, I just lean towards the ceiling a little bit more with them. All right. It's not all rosy, so we'll see. Are these uh two fine gentlemen wrong because we are going to focus on two wide receivers that you guys are lower than ECR on? And Pat, let's uh jump over uh yeah, we'll just jump over to yours here real quick because the name just jumps out to me even though I think we started with you on the last one as well. Is Rasheed Rice. Rasheed Rice comes in at 43, wide receiver, 20 on this list. And this is another one of those where like you've got him quite a bit lower. So talk to us. Uh he is outside of the 50. So I mean this is like a round and a half I guess difference if you want to use it like that on the overall. So Rashi Rice, why are we out almost? Yeah, I've got him at 58 overall. So right now with Rasheed Rice at uh an ECR of 43 and Xavier Worthy at 54 at least one of those guys has to be a a colossal disappointment at their current cost, right? I mean, maybe not if if Patrick Mahomes goes back to being a 5,000yard, 40 touchdown quarterback like he was in 2022, but Mahomes has been closer to 4,000 yards the last two years. Didn't even reach 4,000 last year. Uh 27 TD passes in 2023, 26 last year. So, I would feel better about Rashi Rice as a fourthrounder if Xavier Worthy didn't exist or if Travis Kelce had retired. But I don't know when when Rasheed Rice really caught fire in his rookie season late late November, December, and in the big playoff game against Miami, he was getting nine or 10 targets pretty much every game. It's just hard to see Rasheed Rice consistently getting nine to 10 targets a game. Now that Xavier Worthy got really hot down the stretch and and with Travis Kelce still around. It's kind of interesting though because we what did we call it all year? We called it the Rashi Rice roll. you know, that was the Rashy Rice role where it was like main first target. Um, and if he I I would presume he might kind of jumping jump back into that role, but to your point like Xavier Worthy's electric uh though they might try to find some other outlets for him. Do you think do you think Pat's rank is too low Ericson on Rashi Rice or do you think it's uh probably just right? No, I think that his his rank is pretty spot-on. I think that Rashi Rice is ranked very aggressively when you just kind of take a step back. There's a lot of ways where this goes wrong. The guy's coming off a major knee injury. So during the ramp up to the season, is he in practicing in the Rashi Rice role if he's limited? Does that make a lot of sense for the Chiefs to build their offense around a guy who's coming off a major knee injury? Like that to me seems like a little bit of a stretch when Xavier Worthy filled in so great. So is it worthy in the Rashi Rice role to start the year and then they put Rice back into it to the second half of the year, but then Worthy takes on a field stretcher role. It's like at this point, especially how closely ranked those two guys are. You can take the guy that was a first round pick, the guy that flashed most recently and the guy that's not coming off major injury. And then the other guy, he's also not facing potential suspension, you know, risk or whatever. So although the suspension thing shouldn't affect Raji Rice this year, um it's still just like another layer of is this guy like dialed in like or is he a bonehead? Like I I don't really know. There's like so many ways the Rice thing doesn't work out versus the cost you have to pay for him at this ECR. It seems like it's kind of ignoring those like I want to get the discount because of all the red flags that I just miss mentioned. It's like oh yeah round four. It's like wait that doesn't make it that doesn't add up to me. So um yeah I agree kind of being lower on Rashi Rice. There's a lot of like buzz about Roma that everyone we want to get back in. This is going to be Roma Dun's year. Erikson, you were lower on DJ Moore though. He comes in at ECR 39. Not that I don't want to say you're out like I would say that Fitz's uh Rashid Rice rank is a little bit more exemplifying like not like out but just like further back that you're probably not going to have shares. Yours isn't quite that on DJ Moore but it's still significant enough to talk about. Um where are you at? Do you think it just Roma Dun season and that's why DJ Moore's down? I guess for me it's because the Bears are now under Ben Johnson. I I don't know exactly, oh just plugandplay, copy and paste DJ more wide receiver one from the past year or the past year that I've been he's been in Chicago because it's a new offense, right? We don't know who's going to play in the slot. Like that's going to change. We talked about at the beginning of the show what's going to move ADPs. Whoever Ben Johnson decides you are my slot receiver is going to dramatically shift ADPs of these Bears wide receivers. So I think it's somewhat telling that he gets hired as the head coach, first thing he does is draft two pass catchers in the first two rounds of the NFL draft. think it's a little telling about the guys he already has in the building. But to the point of you saying that I'm not super super low on DJ Moore is because he's still a consistent producer, right? I find it hard to believe unless he gets injured or just totally falls out of favor with this new coaching staff that the end of the day, he's probably going to end up being a wide receiver, too. Now, he's kind of being drafted in that range. So, I think for me, it's I don't see the wide receiver six ceiling with him like we saw his first year with Justin Field. I don't think that's going to happen with all those pass catchers in Chicago with potentially Ben Johnson looking at some of those other guys. If anything, it's a indication and suggestion for those looking at my rankings that I think I'd rather just take a different Bears receiver at a cheaper price because I'm not so confident at least with the market that DJ Morris, oh, he's locked and loaded to be the number one guy. I would assume that that's probably the best bet to make, but not at this particular ECR. So again, I don't think he's going to be a bust by any means, but maybe underwhelm a little bit versus his uh ECR. That's kind of my feeling. Pat, what do you think about DJ Moore? Are you in the same general space or are you around ECR and DJ Moore? No, I'm right where Erikson is 46th overall. Same ranking. And like I love DJ Moore way too much to be completely out on him. It's more of a gentle fade for me. And it's less about the too many mouths to feed thing than it is about DJ Moore and Caleb Williams never really clicking last year. And and DJ Moore's demeanor just being sort of strangely sour for a lot of the season. Just something about the vibe there that I I don't love. And um yeah, I'll have to get him in at least one draft, but I'm probably not going to have a lot of DJ Moore in 2025. All right, let's move to our next grouping here. We've got 46 through 60. We're going to start off with Alvin Chimera coming in at 46 on the Fantasy Pros ECR. Chuba Hubard, Joe Burrow, Courtland Sutton, James Connor, Devonte Smith, Omaran Hampton at 52, Sam Laora, Xavier Worthy who we've been talking about at 54, David Montgomery, DK Metaf, Jameson Williams, Chris, Chris Godwin, and Aaron Jones. That ends out your 60. Interesting group in there. Getting a little bit more on the rookie running back side. Get a Marian Hampton jumping up. Pat, let's start with Chuba Hubard. Chuba comes in at 47. We know there's no Brooks. We know there's just really nothing out there. They want to press him even more. He's RB18. Uh you've got him a little bit higher. His ECR is 47. You have got him in the 30 range. Is Chuba Hubard going to be a massive target for you knowing that, you know, there's quite a decent separation between market value and your uh and your own analysis on them? I think so, Walsh. Um cuz I I would be perfectly comfortable taking him early in the fourth and he's going more towards the late fourth. I He was just really good last year. 4.8 yards per carry, 11th in miss tackles forest, eighth in yards after contact per attempt among running bac
