[1] 2025 Fantasy/Sci-Fi Book Releases Tier Ranked — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D3xlPfW4cDU

Hi, it's Penny here and in this video I'm going to be taking all the fantasy and sci-fi books that I read that were published in 2025 and I'm going to tear rank them. Um, I've just set up a basic tier ranking board with some basic categories from best to worst and then I think I've got about 30 books to try and tear rank. So, let's get into it. Um, I'm just going to take them in the random order that it has given me. So, we're starting with Girl Dinner. So, this is Olivie Blake's like academic. I guess you could say it's a horror. Um, it's got a little bit of cannibalism. Not really enough. It kind of tries to be very feminist, but honestly, I didn't think really pulled it off. So, we're going to put this in disappointing because I was quite disappointed with it. Um, I really love Oliv Blake's writing, but sometimes her plot and the way it all comes together just doesn't do it. And this was one where it just doesn't do it. Uh then next we have to clutch a razor by Veronica Roth. So this is the sequel to Win Among Crows and we're kind of following some monsters as well as some monster hunters and the relationships between them. Um the monsters or the vampires are kind of inspired by Polish mythology and so they actually eat emotions like different kinds of emotions. Uh, and we also have some of like Baba Yaga in here, which I quite enjoy. And like these are very short stories, but very emotionally satisfying. Sometimes the writing is particularly lovely, although probably more in Winnamon Crows than To Clutch of Razor. To Clutch of Razor is almost a bit more standard urban fantasy. Anyway, I had a good time with it. I think it's really well written. I would probably put it in solid even if it wasn't a favorite of mine. I think if you're a more character-based reader, you'll probably like this better than me. Uh, next we have Detective Beans: Adventures in Catland. So, this is another second book. The first book, Detective Beans and the Mystery of the Missing Hat, I absolutely loved. This is just like a children's graphic novel series about this cat who wants to be a detective, but I think it does still count as a fantasy novel because it's got talking cats in it, right? And all sorts of other talking animals. Anyway, as it turns out, Adventures in Cat Town was more like individual little comic strips, much less cohesive than The Mystery of the Missing Hat, which I loved. Um, so I didn't quite enjoy this one as much. I mean, it's still fun, so I'll probably still put it in okay, like for the target market of like kids or younger people, probably fine. But it wasn't everything I hoped, but it wasn't exactly disappointing, I think. Then we have The Inheritance by Alona Andrews. So, this I really loved. I really love Alona Andrews. I was putting off reading this particular one because they released it in like serialized form, which I don't particularly like. Um, like on their blog, they released it that way. But then they did publish the whole thing and I listened to the audio book and I thought it was a lot of fun. It is quite a complicated world where like these portals have started opening up and then the humans have also started developing these kind of superpowers and they send people in to try and close down the portal before the alien invaders can come in. But the main character actually works for a mining team because there's this whole thing going on with mining and resources that the main character can like identify with some kind of magical site. But then on this particular mission into the the caves that are part of the portal, um she gets left behind with the dog on the team and has to basically try and figure out how to survive on her own in this like magical portal. I really liked it. It was a lot of fun. It is now the beginning of a series though. So another Alona Andrews series that I'm waiting for more on. Um but I will definitely put this on favorite. I just had such a great time. I love Alona Andrews. I just think they do everything so well. Like plot, writing, humor, characters, emotions, world building. I just love it. Then we have The Witch Roads by Kate Elliot. So I really liked Well, no, I had a mixed experience with the Crown of Stars series by Kate Elliot, but I always want to like Kate Elliot. I think she does really cool world building and a lot of like cultural exploration. And the witch roads is kind of this really cool world where you have to stay on the road because if you go off the roads in this world, you risk being kind of like infected by this like ghostly parasite thing, but the witches in the past kind of set up these roads to be protected. But there's definitely a lot of hints in the beginning of this that there's a lot more going on that the main character or like people in the present time don't understand. I just couldn't do it. So this goes in DNF for me. I don't know. When I think about it, I think, should I go back? I'm definitely interested in the world that she was creating. I just didn't feel like she was ever getting to that part of the story. And from what I heard from other people, it never really gets to that part of the story. So, I don't know. I'm tempted, but I'm also thinking maybe it will disappoint me in the end. But maybe one day when I'm in the mood to just be like immersed in the world. Cuz what was frustrating me is that the main character would say something's really urgent and then as she raced through town to get where she needed to be, we would get a very slow detailed exploration of everything in the town, which didn't really fit with the so-called urgency of the scene. But like if I could be in the mood to just sit with enjoying that world building regardless of whether it fit with the story, maybe I could enjoy it. Maybe one day I'll go back to that one. Oh, so very conveniently the first five books in this tier ranking is one for every category. How nice. Um I don't think we'll keep that up. Next we have School of Shards. So this is the third book in the Veta Nostra series by Marina and Sergey Diachenko. kind of like a dark academia, depending on your definition of dark academia, but it's dark and it's academic. It's also very abstract and weird as our main characters go through this metaphorist to kind of understand the magic of the world, which is kind of very grammatical and language and conceptbased. The whole series is very weird. I loved Federa Nostra. The second book, Assassin of Reality, isn't quite as good, but it still does some cool things. School of Shards, h I probably only put it in okay. At this point, the main character from the first books is kind of a teacher kind of, and we're following more of these new students that have been brought into the school, as well as still getting a little bit of the other main characters perspective. and it just wasn't quite weird enough for me and didn't quite advance the concepts that it had created in the previous books as much as I would like. But actually, I'll try and order these. I think I'd put this above Detective Beans. Like, it was definitely weird. If I wasn't comparing it to Venostra, maybe I would have thought it was even greater, but the pacing was a little bit off and it just didn't pull off what I was hoping it would. Then next, we have The Starving Saints by Caitlyn Stling. Oh, I'm tempted to put this directly next to girl dinner because these are both kind of cannibalism books. Um, also kind of weird. Although I think for The Starving Saints, I'd heard that it was really weird and it just actually wasn't weird enough for me. So, I was a bit disappointed. And we're following these kind of people that have been locked into this castle. What's it called? Like a siege. Anyway, they can't leave the castle and they're running out of food and water. Now, this one woman who kind of secretly practices witchery has solved the problem of drinking water. So, they're now asking her, "Can you solve the problem of just making food from nothing?" And so, she's trying. She's trying. Is she kind of failing? Yes. Um, there's also some other characters involved with the religion of the world. And then at some point, the saints of this religion just turn up and start messing with everyone's heads. I liked parts of it, but I do think it was a bit disappointing. Um, I can definitely see why some people like it though and probably better well probably overall better than Girl Dinner probably. Then next we have Into the Distant Clouds by Lee Murray. So, this is a short story anthology as part of the Tain McKenna world, which is kind of like a a creature horror series where basically each book a bunch of like civilians and defense force and conservation people and criminals will end up in some kind of remote part of New Zealand and have some kind of creature experience. And then there's also like a little bit of Maui mythology normally mixed in there as well. I quite enjoyed the main series a lot more than I would have expected to because creature horror probably isn't what I would think of as my favorite. Um, this is like a short story anthology with a bunch of short stories following those characters. So, I definitely don't think you'd want to pick it up without having read the main series because it does kind of continue some of their personal stories. And each of the short stories were a little bit formulaic in that it was kind of like the setup, the creature, the end. Um, but also a lot of the short stories did reference like New Zealand history as well as other parts of Maro mythology. So I I did quite enjoy it, but it also wasn't anything mind-blowing. So I would probably just put it in okay. Oh, then next we have The Devils by Joey Brombie. So this is a book that I've seen a lot of mixed opinions on, but I think the average rating is still very high. We're kind of following this rag tag group that's been put together by the church. We've got a vampire, a shape shifter, an elf, some others. They get put on a quest to take this lost princess to kind of claim her empire, which the church has some kind of interest in happening. Um, and they they just go on an adventure. It's a lot of fun. It is sometimes a bit crass and I I don't know, maybe sometimes the plot is a little bit predictable. Like I feel like every critique I've seen of this book is totally valid, but also I had a lot of fun with it. And I think I would even put it in favorites. I just really liked the characters and some of the jokes and I had a fun time. Then we have The Amber Al by Juliet Merilier. So I have read some Juliet Merilier and really loved it. The Blackthorn and Grim trilogy, the Seven Waters series. Uh the Amber Al is Juliet Merier's latest book. And I think the sequel has just come out. I'm going to pick it up soon. We're kind of following this young girl whose town has been taken over by these people looking for this amber that they think is kind of like treasure and kind of her whole world is pulled apart being pulled into this expedition. And some of it is quite traumatic, but I felt like the pacing was a little bit off and just overall it felt like it was targeted at a slightly younger audience even though it is quite brutal. I don't know. I just didn't love it quite as much as I've loved some of her other stuff that I've read. So, this I would actually put in disappointing, but maybe well I think actually it was a better book than The Starving Saints, but because The Starving Saints was a little bit weird, it had a little bit more to it, but I do think it was a better book, so we'll put it above. Uh, then we have Rapport by Martha Wells. This is a murderbot short story. Murderbot being this security bot that has hacked their software so that they can just watch TV and like their media. That's all they really want to do. but they keep getting pulled into looking after the humans who are kind of stupid and make a lot of dumb decisions. In this one, I honestly have kind of forgotten what happens. Um, I think a little bit of an adventure with art, which is this like research transport that Murderbot has made friends with throughout the series. I've kind of forgotten, but I think it was still like a good Murderbot short story. Um, I'm going to put it in okay and probably up the top, even though I have no memory of it. I think I remember liking it. Maybe maybe I'll remember it when I pick up um the new Murderbot release which is coming out this year. Like a proper full novel. It's very exciting. Then we have Slow Gods by Cla North which honestly goes straight into favorites and straight up the top. I really love this. It's hard to explain because there are a few different things going on and a lot of them don't actually amount to much. A lot more of this is about the kind of political analysis and it there's a lot of comparisons to what's going on in our world, but the way it does that I really enjoyed. And also like the things that are going on in the sci-fi world are kind of weird. We have this like slow god traveling around slowly. Uh, and at some point it appears and tells people that all their planets in this certain area are at risk when this like binary star system is going to explode. And so it's giving them warning that they've got a certain amount of time to prepare. And the main character's planet basically tries to ignore the problem, kind of goes after anybody that's trying to spread the information. So, we're following that situation at the same time as this other situation where this planet is trying to prepare, but that's like still a massive undertaking and like is so emotional. I just love this. And the main character as well, something happens to them that makes them not entirely normal. And that was a cool concept, too. Like just some cool weird concepts in here that I really loved. Then we have Direct Descendant by Tanya Huff. This is a little bit like a cozy horror, I guess. We're following this town where they are supported by the darkness and sometimes people make sacrifices to the darkness to get certain things, but there's a lot of rules around it and obviously they don't want anyone outside of the town to know. Then this guy comes and makes a sacrifice in a way that he wasn't supposed to and disappears and they kind of have to cover up his assumid death. Uh and then this other woman comes in to investigate and it turns into at that point kind of a romance. A romance that wasn't the kind of romance that I can really get on board with. Like it was much more like instant physical attraction rather than working together and slowly building trust. So not really my kind of thing. and some of the jokes just didn't really hit. Like it's kind of humorous but not in the way I enjoy. I was thinking I was going to put this in okay until I said all that and now I'm thinking should I put it in disappointing? The thing is even though I liked this less than some of the things in disappointing. I think I'm going to put this in okay because I just think it wasn't the book that was the problem. It was me that was the problem because this is not the kind of book I would normally pick up and that's why I didn't really like it. Uh then Lamura and the Bottled Serpent. This is a short story that was released, I think, actually in two halves in the Grim Dark magazine. Maybe the first part was in December of 2024, but the second half was in January 2025. So, I'm putting it in as a 2025 book or like a short story. I'm going to put this in solid because I do think it was really well written and I think if you're a big Lamura fan, you will enjoy it. Although it is worth noting that although it's set in the world of Lamura and Lammore is there, it's kind of a a different story just about this guy and the troubles he's gotten him himself into and like Loamura is like peripherally involved. It's kind of when Lo Lamura is younger and he's been sent off to train and then he sees this thing kind of play out while he's off in a particular place training. Anyway, it's very well written. If you've been missing Loamura, you'll enjoy it. But again, it's a short story, so there's not too much to it, but it it is very well written. So, I'm going to put it in solid for that reason. Uh, then we have Queen Demon by Martha Wells. So, this is another DNF, but I am going to put it above Witch Roads because I do have a plan to go back to it. Um, so this is the sequel to Witch King where we're kind of following this demon uh who wakes up in a different body and he's like, "Well, what happened to my old body and whose body is this?" And he has to try and work it out. But it is actually in like a more fantastical kind of world with witches and these other dark magician guys. um I've kind of forgotten all the details and I picked this up via audio book and immediately thought I am out of my depth. I cannot I cannot read this series via audio book. I had the same experience with the first book actually. I tried it via audio book and I just could not grasp what was going on. But then when I read it physically I was fine. So I am going to pick this up again but I'm waiting for the physical copy to come through from my library. Then we have the Liinal Zone volume 2 by Junji Edo. So, this is like a a manga horror short story anthology. Kind of the second volume in this group of short stories. Ginger Edo is like a manga horror author that I really like. But I'm probably just going to put this in okay because the stories are like a variable quality. I think some I really loved, others not so much. Maybe I'll put it at the top still. Like I think I've enjoyed both the Liinal Zone anthologies as a whole, but some of the stories aren't as good as others. So I don't think I would put it in solid. But if you like horror and manga, Junji is always a good choice. Then we have The Incandescent by Emily Tesh. So this one isn't what I expected at all from the cover. I actually think in my opinion the cover is a bit of a marketing fail, but probably the marketers will say no, the cover was great because it made people buy the book. But I think this is always the problem I have with book marketing at the moment is that they're so focused on people buying the book rather than getting the book to the people who will love it. This book, the cover makes you think you're going to get some kind of like beautiful fantasy story. That's not really what it is. It's a much more practical story. We're following this woman who's essentially like the principal of this magic school where they sometimes summon demons and a lot of the magic is based around like demon summoning. And there's like these different levels of demons. Some of them very low level don't cause any problems and they actually just let them like possess things around the school. It's not really a problem. She has a little imp in her clock that she quite enjoys. But then there's the higher level demons that can cause a lot of problems. And at the same time as dealing with kind of that and these particular students having an issue. Um she's also having some romances which I didn't particularly care for. I didn't think they added that much to the story. But putting those aside, like everything I've said so far sounds maybe kind of negative. I'm actually going to put this in favorites, but maybe down the bottom. But I just really liked some of the ideas in this book about creating yourself. Kind of explores it both through the way the demons and their magic works that they kind of like build their own identity and then also she's teaching these teenagers. So, it's talking a lot about identity through that. And I I just really like some of the ideas in it. Maybe I didn't like the whole story, but it's it's like a low tier favorite. You just have to be prepared that it's going to be a much more practical story, but I actually kind of also like books that are a little bit more realistic and if the romances had just been a little bit more realistic. Well, maybe the problem was that they were too realistic. So, not actually enjoyable, not really that romantic. Anyway, I'm not a romance girl, so I didn't care about the romance, but some of the concepts I really liked. And in some ways it is actually a little bit like a Harry Potter story except instead of following the teenagers you're following the teacher. Then we have The River Has Roots by Amal El Matar. This is one where I actually feel like I could put it in disappointing or I could put it in solid. And I'm probably going to put it in solid. It was a little bit disappointing just because what I had heard about it made me think it was going to be something more than it was. In a lot of ways it's just like a kind of a fairy tale story. It's a Mal Elita. Of course, there is beautiful writing and the way that it talks about grammar as magic is really lovely. It doesn't really do much with that, but like as an idea, it's really lovely. And it's kind of a story of these two sisters and their experiences with the fay and their like really strong relationship. And I love the story. It is really beautiful, but it's also like a really short like actually I have it here. Really short little fairy tale. This physical book does have pictures, but they don't particularly add anything that's like amazing. They just kind of add to the vibe of it. I think this is what Alita is really great at is like books with vibes, like great vibes. That's what this has. Amazing fairy tale, magical kind of vibes. Is there much to the story? Not really. But I still really enjoyed it. So, for what it is, it's really solid, but you have to like have the right expectations. Uh, then we have Sunrise on the Reaping, which is the latest Hunger Games novel by Suzanne Collins. I'm honestly just going to put this in okay, like about here. I just think I'm not a big enough Hunger Games fan girl. I think if you're really into the Hunger Games, you're going to love it. It was still probably solidly written. I don't know. I could put it in solid, but I'm going to put it in okay for my own experience. It just felt to me like a lot of the same same. I don't know that it added that much more to the story. Well, it it did from like a story perspective, but from a theme perspective, I don't know. It was okay. It was okay. Uh then we have The Book That Held Heart by Mark Lawrence. So, this is the third and final book in the library trilogy by him. I thought this was really good. I'm going to put this in solid even though I had some problems with it. Um because I think the themes are really great and I think what he did with the world was really amazing, but I do think by this third book he had kind of lost his focus a little bit and the way the actual plot came together was a bit messy. The multiple perspectives were a bit too scattered and it just didn't quite come together how I might have hoped. But I also can't help but seeing that third book as like part of the whole series. So, like the whole series is really solid and I think some of the themes are really valuable. So, for that reason, I really liked it. I think if it wasn't for some of the problems, it would be a favorite. So, because it has some problems, I'm going to put it in solid. Even though it has some problems, so maybe it should be okay, but like I like it more than that. Look, I don't need to make sense. This is my tea ranking. Then we have Once Was William by Emma Carey. So, I've been really enjoying Mr. Harry and I'm going to put this I think actually at the top of Solid. The problem is that this is kind of like a kind of like a a short story anthology in some ways except that it does tell a cohesive story but we kind of move between different characters perspectives and each one almost has their own story. So like I felt like I was reading a short story anthology and some of the perspectives I really loved and others not so much. But then again, once you bring the whole lot together, I think it did some amazing things. So, it's one of those books where like as you're reading it, you're not necessarily loving the experience, but once you finished it and you look back on what it is, you're like, "Oh, that's pretty cool." Um, so I'm going to put it at the top of Solid. Basically, it's following this guy called Will, who has been brought back from the dead, hence why he's known as Once was Willm. Um, but he hasn't come back exactly as his parents were hoping. And so then he's kind of trying to find his place in the world. At the same time, the guy that brought him back from the dead is this wizard that is trying to like absorb children's souls so that he can live forever. He already kind of lives forever, but he wants to live forever forever. You know, he doesn't want to have to like constantly be absorbing children's souls just so they can live a little bit longer. He would like to like have some kind of permanent immortality. He's a really awful guy and I really liked his story and the way that all these other characters kind of play into the story as well. It was really great. I think I just really love the way it like almost created its own mythology in a way that like exists beyond itself. I don't know how to explain it, but I liked it. Uh then we have The Raven Scholar. This one is set in a world where there are like these different animal gods and the different factions every however many years will compete to decide who's going to be the new emperor. Uh but this particular competition something has gone wrong. Somebody's been murdered and we're following this scholar who's been put in charge of solving the murder as well as now having to compete in the competition. Um I I actually didn't like this in the beginning. It took me a while to win me over, but eventually it became a favorite. Honestly, maybe in the middle here, I think, especially the way it develops the concept of the raven god, and we do get a few parts that are like in plural perspective that I really loved. Maybe some parts of this the characters were a bit young sounding and the world building is a little bit stereotypical, but overall I really liked it and I'm very excited about the next book which has been announced for October I think September September October 2027. So that's something to look forward to. Then we have A Song of Legends Lost by MH A Yendi. So, this is like a sci-fi fantasy where um some of the people have the ability to like summon their ancestors to help them fight and they use them to fight against the greybloods, which are kind of like these monstrous beings that they believe are summoned by what they call tech work. And they kind of view it as a kind of magic, but it seems like it's also kind of more like technology. and maybe the greybloods themselves have this like technological element to them. Um, I think this might be like a a debut novel, so I'm actually just going to put it at the top of okay. I really like the world, but some of the pacing was a little bit off for me. But I think the series has a lot of potential. It's going to be a series uh the second book coming out June, August, sometime soon. I think it has a lot of potential, so I'm looking forward to that. Um, then we have Gifted and Talented by Olivie Blake. Another one by Olivie Blake. And this I'm going to put like right near the top of Solid. In terms of Olivie Blake books, I think this might be one of my favorites. Not my most favorite, but I definitely enjoyed it. We're following like this like very rich, privileged, magical family. Uh, but when their father dies, they're kind of left with who is going to inherit his like magitech corporation. And it kind of like reveals a lot of toxicity within the family as well as these like toxic relationships. these adult children had with their father that they're kind of trying to work through. And I ended up feeling very emotionally connected to these characters. Do I think it was a little bit too long? Yes. Is there also actually very limited magic in this book? Also, yes. Um, but still, I was very invested with what was happening. I think I just when Olivie Blake writes things in a certain way, I just really love it. And this was one of those cases. Uh, then we have Green Teeth by Molly O'Neal. And I feel mean, but I'm going to put this in disappointing. Maybe I'm going to put it at the top because I do feel like it's a little bit similar to the case of Direct Descendant where it's not the book's fault that I didn't like it, it's my fault because I really wanted this to be like um someone you can build a nest in by John Wizell because both of those kind of follow these monster creatures. uh in green teeth is like a bog witch witch. Anyway, this lady who lives in a bog and she's kind of a monstrous creature and then this woman gets thrown into her lake being accused of being a witch and they end up working together to deal with this priest in the town who's up to no good. And I really wanted Molly Green Teeth to be like, wait, Molly Green Teeth? Shelly Molly, I've forgotten I've forgotten her name. Molly Green Teeth seems right to my brain, but then am I just saying that because of the author's name? It doesn't matter. This bog hag, maybe that's what she's called, a bog hag. I wanted her to be like much more monstrous than she is, but she wasn't quite monstrous enough for me. Also, this leans very heavily into like Arthur and Camelot and like that kind of mythology, which I don't always love. I want to love it, but I don't usually. and they basically end up on this quest where they have to do three tasks which I just didn't really care about and uh it just wasn't it wasn't what I wanted. So, it's probably not the book's fault, but I was disappointed. Then we have The Martian Contingency, which I was also very disappointed in. In fact, maybe maybe it goes quite low. So, this is the fourth and I think maybe kind of hope maybe that this is the final book in the Lady Astronaut series. I really like the first three books in this series, especially I actually think the third one was the best. The fourth one, I don't think was 100% necessary, and there were some interesting plot points, but instead of focusing on any of those, she spent a lot of time thinking about, well, if we're living on Mars now, how are we going to run all these religious holidays? Like, we've got to work out the calendars and like how to do things with limited resources and no gravity. And I just don't care. Oh, and also actually a big thing about safe sex on Mars because it's this new Martian colony, but we're not ready to have children yet, but we've sent up a bunch of people who are in couples because we might want to sometime in the future, but then we're not ready yet. Like all of that, I don't really care about that either. There were some interesting things kind of continuing the racism themes from the earlier books that just kind of got rushed over and some interesting ideas around leadership also rushed over. So overall just kind of disappointing end to the Lady Astronaut series and I almost kind of want to just pretend it doesn't exist. Honestly, maybe I should put it lower. Then we have The Strength of the Few by James Eington. This I am going to put in solid. This is a very hyped series, the sequel to The Will of the Many. Um, kind of a Roman inspired fantasy sci-fi. I think I actually going to put this under to clutch a razor because very specific to what's happening in this second book in the series. I found it also lacking in focus and kind of confusing. I do think some of what it did was amazing and I'm very excited to continue the series, but the pacing wasn't my favorite. Am I still putting it in solid? Yes, because like conceptually what it was doing was really cool and the world is really interesting. I don't think I've given a very good idea of what that one's about, but it's so hyped I don't think I need to. Uh, then we have Brandon Sanderson's of the Ember. Isles of the Ember. So, this I'm kind of sad because I got the expensive Secret Project Edition and it's a beautiful book on the outside and actually in the inside there's some lovely pictures as well. But did I actually enjoy the book? No, I did not. At this point, I just think the way that Brandon Sanderson's writing is not really what I want. It's just a little bit too silly for me and not really getting into the themes enough. like his sense of humor isn't meshing for me at all anymore. And I don't know, something about the way the cosmeics expanding into more of a sci-fi world just doesn't quite feel grounded to me. Even though I read plenty of weird sci-fi, but it just doesn't feel real to me. It just feels like a little bit silly and it's not fair, but that's how I feel. Um, I'll put it in disappointing probably. I don't know. Was I more disappointed than girl dinner? Probably. Anyway, moving on from that disappointment, the next one is The Listeners by Maggie Steve, which is a DNF and I'm putting it right down the bottom. The worst, most disappointing book that I read from 2025. I really love Maggie Steve. I think I've read almost all of her other books, which admittedly are mostly YA books, but I love some of the way she writes things, like her writing and the way she exaggerates things, the way she phrases things. I love it in so many of her books, except for the listeners. Um, so the listeners is supposed to be the story like set in World War II where they've put all these like foreign diplomats into these luxury hotels kind of as prisoners but also just to keep them out of the way. And so we're following this particular luxury hotel owner as all these um foreign diplomats including Nazis are coming to stay in her hotel. And there's a little bit of a magical realism element to do with the water or the the like natural springs under the hotel and the FBI's there. So, there's this FBI agent that I suspect there's maybe going to be a romance with. But honestly, I just found the writing so boring, which considering what I expect from Maggie Steve was not what I expected from this. After several chapters, I was just so bored. So bored. I could not do it anymore. And I should have known because this was marked as general fiction. I was hoping the magical realism tag would save it, but general fiction is just not my style. And so this is a big no for me. I really didn't like it. And I'm this is like Brandon Sanderson. I'm really worried that Mega Steve is an author that's heading in a direction that is not one I'm interested in. And it's just so sad. Like it's fine. Authors can write what they write, but it's just so sad when you have a favorite author and then they don't want to write books for you anymore. Then luckily we can end this on a more positive note. Uh we have Death of the Author by Nidia Cororo. So this is like a contemporary literary sci-fi. I would say actually I didn't really like the contemporary part of it. It was a bit too contemporary for me. We're following this young woman who is disabled and has kind of been failing at being an author. So, her life is not going well, but then she writes this story called Rusted Robots, which is like phenomenally successful and she's suddenly like super famous and has a lot of money and it kind of like turns her life around as well. So, we're getting the story of rusted robots like interspersed through her own story. And the way that that comes together is actually amazing. I think this book was very ambitious. I don't think it pulled off everything it hoped to, but because of how amazing what it was trying to do, even if it didn't entirely do it. Um, because of that, I'm going to put this well into solid. I might put it under gifted and talented because it didn't quite emotionally engage me. In fact, I guess the emotional parts of it where this young woman is dealing with her family, incredibly frustrating in my opinion. Um, but the robot story, just the way it came together with her story was really nice. Um, I think this is one I would love to reread at some point and would get like quite a different experience out of it because potentially if you reread it, you can reread it in quite a different way. It's very interesting. So, that's my tear ranking of all the 2025 releases that I have read. There were a few more I wanted to get to, but I haven't quite gotten to them yet. And who knows when I'll ever have time. Let me know though if there's any 2025 releases that you think I would like that I have missed because I would love to know about those or let me know if you've read any of these books. I'd love to chat with you about them down in the comments. Do subscribe if you'd like to see more of my bookish videos. Otherwise, thank you so much for watching. I hope that you are doing well and I will see you next time.
