[1] Upcoming Fantasy , Sci-Fi, & Mystery Books | July 2026 New Releases — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0c98Nd6RRg

These are the 10 new releases that I am the most excited to read this July. Hi everyone, I'm Jessica and this week I have for you 10 new releases. I have fantasy, science fiction, and a little bit of mystery this month. And these are all books that I personally am excited and I'm considering reading. I have sorted through all of the many, many books that are coming out this month and these are the ones that really stood out to me. I will be taking these in release date order and I will give you the publisher as well as how many pages they are to help you plan your reading month a little bit better and I'll tell you which books I'm planning to read. So, if you want to stick around, you can come back and see me review those books in July. We're going to start with July 7th and the first book I have for you is The Revenant of Sir Liet by Florence Chen. This is being published by Rising Action and it is 416 pages long. And this is a political fantasy that is described as being similar to The Traitor Baru Cormorant, which I have not read yet, but I have heard such, such amazing things about um and this looks amazing. We are following two main characters. Um what appears to be kind of after some kind of an uprising. So, one of them is a character whose people have been indiscriminately slaughtered because of the color of their eyes and the other one is a prince who has lost his throne who is trying to find his way back using revolutionaries. The question the book seems to be asking is will these two be able to come together, join their forces, and stop the coming terrors that the government is bringing. I am very excited for this one. Um I have had at least two of you already recommend me this book that you've already read it and tell me how amazing it is. So, I am really excited to read this one. I love political fantasy. I do think it's one that is probably going to make its way onto my July TBR and it was one I hadn't heard of. So, thank you for bringing it up to me. Um I'm so excited to get to this one in early July. Coming on July 14th, which is also my birthday, we have The Dragon Has Some Complaints by John Wiswell, which is 400 pages and being published by DAW. I really enjoyed John Wiswell's debut novel, Someone You Can Build a Nest In, which was kind of like a cozy horror situation following a monster who falls in love. Um I did not really enjoy his second book, which was a retelling of The Labors of Heracles. Um that just did not work for me. Probably humor-wise and some other reasons. But this one sounds like it's going to be so good. I do have an advanced reader copy of this. This is a story of a dragon who had four heads but may have lost one of them and now only has three. And I'm going to read you from the back of the book, the description of the three dragons, just because I think it's really cute. After an unfortunate incident, he now has three heads, one stump, and a daily whirlwind of internal bickering. Center head wants to rain death upon all humanity, bottom head is like a feral cat, and upper head is under the delicate delusion that he is in fact human. And the dragon sneaks into a dragon rider academy and finds a dragon rider who is so desperate for a dragon of her own that she is happy to overlook whatever is going on with this particular specimen. And I think they're going to form a really cozy relationship. I think it sounds like it could be really good. It sounds It's kind of giving me the same feels that his first book did, and I do really enjoy a lot of his trademark humor that he had in that book. So I'm really looking forward to this one. Um I am cautiously optimistic that this one is going to work for me. I also love the cover, and I just I really want it to work. And I'm definitely reading it, so I will be giving you my opinion on this one. Also on the 14th, we have The Eye of the Leviathan by M. A. Carrick, which is 512 pages and it's being published by Orbit. This is a historical fantasy that is set in an alternate Spanish Golden Age, um and it is concerned with some seafaring battles, I do believe. This is the start of a series, and I have been planning to read Mask of Mirrors by M. A. Carrick, which is the start of a different series, um but I do have I was offered and I did accept an advanced reader copy of this one. July actually have a lot of advanced reader copies because it's one of the biggest book release months, I think. And I think I'm going to start here. First of all, because I have an arc, and also because I think starting with first book in a series where they're not all out might feel less pressure for me than starting one that has four books in the series that I have to read now. And in this story, we have a fairy who is masquerading as a mortal, as well as the human whose place he has taken. And there's obviously going to be a conflict between those two that is set with the background of Spain and Spain's conquest during that time. Um I'm really excited to see how that goes. I have been so into historical fantasy that I can't read wait to read another one. It's just really been working for me lately, and I know so many people love M. A. Carrick's work. M. A. Carrick is actually two authors. Um I can't remember who they both are. I will be honest. The one of them also wrote the um the Lady Trent series, The Natural History of Dragons. Um and I can't remember who the other one was. So, my apologies for that, but I am really excited to try this one out and see if their works work for me. Also on the 14th, we have Not with a Bang by Temi Oh. This is 315 pages, and it is being published by Saga. This is a science fiction book, and it is specifically a apocalyptic or post-apocalyptic story. It is the story of a family, a family who are gathering for their oldest daughter's wedding on the day of an extinction-level event, and then they must find their way back across a ruined city to find each other again. And it's being compared to Station Eleven in the marketing now. I love Station Eleven, and I kind of take that with a grain of salt because Station Eleven is one of my all-time favorite books. I do not expect this to be Station Eleven, but I do think it's intriguing. I love seeing people who are tested by events outside of their control, and I love the focus on a family and the smaller moments within those of those grander things that are happening. So, I'm hoping this is going to be really good. I don't know if I'm going to be reading it in July, probably not, but I am planning to read it eventually, and I think it sounds very intriguing. Next, on the 14th, we have A Quiet Place by Seishu Matsumoto. This is 250 pages, and it's being published by Modern Press. Sorry, Modern Library. This is a Japanese classic mystery. The author on the back is described as Japan's Agatha Christie. I love Japanese mysteries and Japanese crime fiction. It's something that I really been enjoying, and I'm so glad to see that we are seeing so many different books getting translations into English so that I can read them all. Just really really enjoy the way that these play out. So, this one is about a man who is away on a business trip when he gets word that his wife has died suddenly on a deserted residential street of a heart attack. And he's not necessarily surprised because she has had heart problems, but she's also way too young to have died from this, and he kind of tries to get on with his life, but eventually finds that he cannot let it go. There's something wrong. He has to find out what really happened to her, and that's the story of this book. Um I do plan to read this eventually. I don't know if it'll be this month or not, but I am definitely planning on reading it. I love Japanese mysteries, as I said, and if you love them as much as I do, this is a new one that's coming out with an English translation. So, if you don't speak Japanese, you'll be able to get to this one for the first time. All right, now we are on to July 21st, and we have The Witch Below the Dreaming Wood by H.G. Perry, which is 448 pages and being published by Redhook. This is yet another historical fantasy, which is having a moment. This one is set in 1941 in London during the Blitz, where people have suddenly begun to have dreams of King Arthur and the myth, the legends of his round table. [snorts] Our main character is Elaine. She is a librarian at the British Library, but she has been sent into the countryside away from London to catalog kind of a reclusive private library. And while she's there, she may be finding out that there is something to these dreams and to the myth of King Arthur. And I assume it's going to have something to do with the war as well. I am so excited. Oh my gosh, so many great things combining here. King Arthur, historical fantasy, World War II. I'm just Uh, I really think this has a lot of potential to be super good. I am definitely reading it. I do have an advanced copy. H.G. Parry is a favorite writer of mine who I feel is extremely underrated. All of her books are so solid. Just such solid books. Nothing below a four star for me. I love them all. And I'm really excited to read her latest one because they have all been hits for me and this one looks amazing. Also on the 21st we have The Lord of the Wood by E.M. Anderson. This is being published by Hanover Square Press and it is 448 pages. The comp authors on this one are T. Kingfisher and T.J. Klune. So, I'm already kind of there for that. I also really, really loved E.M. Anderson's last book that I read, which was The Keeper of Lost Spirits, which I thought was just a fantastic book that was kind of a little bit cozy, but also had a lot to say about human relationships and death and how we can manage to stay close to each other in spite of the tendency to want to push each other away to avoid being hurt. I thought that was a fantastic book. Highly recommend that one if you have not read E.M. Anderson's other works. Um, and this one has the potential to be just as good. Our main character in this book is Arthur. Arthur is a clockmaker who has been given the chance to take on a really exciting job, but in order to have the job happen, he has to travel to this enchanted forest. Sure, why not? Where he's going to meet the Lord of the Wood. And the Lord of the Wood is not a king as he imagined, but is in fact a sad man, a morose sad man. Um and I think there's going to be some romance. This I believe is definitely going to be a fantasy romance. Um as ultimately I think the other book by this author that I read was, but I am so excited because I just really liked that first book and feel like this one has the potential to be just as good and to be exactly the kind of romance between broken people that I love so much. Um I think it sounds amazing and I'm excited to read it. Coming on July 28th, we have Fish Bone Cinderella by Elizabeth Lim being published by Del Rey. This is 448 pages. And I do realize I just said 448 pages for three books in a row, so I hope I didn't write them all down the same for some reason. That's what I have in my notes, so we're going to go with that. So this is obviously a Cinderella retelling, but it's a it's a Cinderella retelling that is also historical fantasy. It is set in 1940s Hong Kong during World War II and after World War II. So our main character, the Cinderella of the tale, um finds that she can turn invisible, it says, and then after the war she's sent to live with her father and I suppose wicked stepmother. And then we also have a lot of the book taking place in the 1960s where we are following some of the consequences of the things that happened in that earlier time period. I haven't read any books by Elizabeth Lim and I understand that she is an author who people really really enjoy and I have wanted to read a book by, so I'm thinking that this could be the one that I start with. Um I don't know that I'm going to be reading in July, but I am very intrigued and I'm going to be watching and checking out the early reviews to see what I think about it, but I just read a different Cinderella retelling, and I do love a retelling, So, I'm hoping that this one's going to be great. And then we have The Harbor of Hungry Ghosts by Eliza Chan being published by Orbit. It is 400 pages. This book is also set in Hong Kong. This is a story of a family whose job it is to both provide blessings as well as protect people from dangerous hungry ghosts. Um but what happens when the ghosts get a little bit out of control? The main character is a member of this family and during a festival where things are interrupted by the British, her grandmother is kidnapped by a ghost and she must find a way to get her back. And I do think based on the description that it looks like it's going to have a little bit of a found family aspect. I don't really know or I can't recall if this is the start of a series. I've read nothing by this author. Um I love the cover and I am very optimistic and curious about it. Again, anything historical fantasy right now is just is just getting me and this one is definitely historical fantasy. And so, I'm excited to see what it might be about. Next, still in the 21st, we have The Demon Star by Jesse Aragon. This is being published by DAW and it is 400 pages long. This one is being compared to Dune and Sun Eater. So, definitely in super lofty company. Um and I am excited to see what I think. I do have an advanced reader copy of this one and I am excited to get to it see what I think. It looks like it's going to be kind of an interplanetary um literary epic science fiction story of the kind that I don't feel like we see a whole lot of these days. So, it has potential to be really amazing. I think it's the start of a series. Um I am optimistic for it. Like I said, I am definitely going to be reading it. Our main characters here are a mother who escaped something horrible years ago who is desperate to save her son from a terrible fate as well as a exorcist who has developed a lot of problems. But it's also about kind of world-spanning problems and larger things and gods, and I am just so curious. So curious to see what this is going to be like. Very curious about that comparison to Dune. Uh we'll see. We'll see. I I'm obviously it's very hyped, so I'm hoping it's going to live up to it, but we're going to see. I'm definitely going to review it next month and let you know what I think. So, there you have it. 10 books that I think look amazing that are coming out in July 2026. I would love if you would leave me a comment and let me know which one of these books sounds the best to you. Or if I missed any books coming out this month because there were so many that you are really excited about. I would love to hear about that and hear about why we should all read it. And if you're feeling quiet, go ahead and leave me a dragon emoji in honor of The Dragon Has Some Complaints, which is one of the books I'm really excited to read this month. And I hope that you all have a fantastic week. I will see you in the next video. Goodbye. [music] [music]
