[1] Top 15 New Noteworthy SFF Releases of 2026 So Far! (First Quarter) — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whTBkQf00XQ

Hi everyone. Petar here for today's video. This will be about the top 15 amazing noteworthy release for the past 3 months or to be more precise the first quarter of 2026 so far. And yeah, I'm picking only 15 books and there are a lot of books being published in the past 3 months even though the month of March is not over yet, but I just realized that I haven't posted any noteworthy release of the month. So I'm just going to combine them into one video today and I'll be talking about 15 books. So as you probably tell, most of these books are out now. So if you haven't read them, you haven't purchased them, it will be possible for you to do that except for the month of March. I think only two books in this list is not out yet. So yeah, let's talk about them. Let's start from the month of January. In the month of January, I have four books to spotlight. The first one is about A God of Carnage Skies by Bradley Beaulieu. So this is the second book in the Book of the Holt trilogy, Dragon Rider epic fantasy series. I heard plenty of great things about the first one, but it's a bit of a mixed reception because supposedly it's more complex and also more hard to follow compared to usual Dragon Rider epic fantasy. But again, I haven't read anything by Bradley Beaulieu except for The Twelve Kings of Sharakhai. So if you have read the first book or maybe this series, let me know what you think about it. And then moving on to the next one, we have something that has pretty much taken the fantasy world by storm and it is for The Poppy War by R.F. Kuang. So yeah, this one I have acquired a copy of the of the advanced reading copy since December. If you have watched my book haul video, you will know what I meant by this. So I was sent an advanced reading copy by Tor Bramble, Bramble Romance, and I just decided to read the prologue and then I was just instantly immersed. And after that, due to super hectic schedule and also dealing with the dealing with a newborn, I couldn't get around to that yet, but I will try to do it most likely within this month. But yeah, this is The Poet Empress, a debut novel by Shen Tao. And if you want to know what the book is about, this is it. In the waning years of the Azalea Dynasty, the emperor is dying. The land consumed by famine and poetry magic lost to all except the powerful. Wei Yin is desperate. After the fifth death of a sibling with her family and village on the brink of starvation, she will do anything to save those she loves. Even offer herself as a concubine to the cruel heir of the beautiful and brutal Azalea house. But in a twist of fate, the palace stands on the knife edge of civil war with Wei trapped in its center at the side of a violent prince. To survive, Wei must harden her heart, rely on her wit, and become dangerous herself. Even if it means becoming a poet in a world where women are forbidden to read and composing the most powerful spell of all, a ballad of death and love. And the next book in the month of January, of course I have to spotlight 12 months by Jim Butcher. Honestly, it is insane that I haven't read this one yet. This is the newest installment in the Dresden Files series, and so far the average receptions the average ratings for this one has been a staggeringly high, one of the highest in Dresden Files to date. I think it's above 4.5 right now on Goodreads, but I'm not surprised. This is the Dresden the Dresden Files, which is arguably one of the if not the best urban fantasy right now, the best ongoing urban fantasy series right now and for the past Oh, how long is it now? 20 years, probably. But yeah, many years now. And yeah, I look forward to reading this. I I promise I will be reading 12 months within this year. That's for sure. I just don't know when yet. And then, the last book I want to spotlight in the month of January, this is for A Tomb of Stones by Andrew Watson. So this is another book another novella in Andrew Watson's, a fellow BookTuber and also a fellow friend. To be more precise, this is the second novella in his series. And yeah, now it's two books and also two novellas out now. So, I guess the next one is the third book and again, and I just want to say congratulations to my friend Andrew for this achievement. I think it is impressive to be doing full-time work on top of writing books and also many real-life responsibility. Like many authors are doing basically. But, that's it for the month of January. Now, let's talk about the month of February. In this one, we have seven books to spotlight. It's a lot. But, there were a lot of potentially amazing release last month. So, let's talk about them. The first one is Operation Bun Haus by Matt Dinniman. So, this one is not related to Dungeon Crawler Carl and this is the Broken Binding edition that I got to work on together with Eon, my fellow art director, and also with Jeff Brown on the cover art and Peng Lu on the board art. And I think we managed to capture the chaos of the situation of the narrative in Operation Bun Haus. Again, this is not really related to Dungeon Crawler Carl even though you can actually see the Easter egg to donut here. And this is donut from Dungeon Crawler Carl. But, as you can see, this is very chaotic. But, I think it fits the book. I haven't read the book yet. This is based on what I have heard and I work on designing the book together with a lot of details with with Eon and also with Jeff. If you have read Operation Bun Haus, let me know what you think about it. Do you think it's as good as Dungeon Crawler Carl? But, if not and this is the first time you heard about this book, well, this is the premise. All New Sonora and colonists Oliver Lewis ever wanted to do is run the family ranch and keep their aging fleet of intelligent agriculture bots ticking. But, now the colossal Apex Corporation has been hired to commence an eviction action. Exterminate all life on New Sonora in preparation for a reboot. And they charge both Earth for the opportunity to design their own war machines, remotely pilot them, and make it a game. The game is called Operation Bun Haus and New Sonora it's it's playing field. Determined to defend the only home he's ever known, Oliver and his friends find themselves fighting for their lives against these machines. To Earth, it's a game, but to Oliver, it's war. The next book in the month of February that I want to spotlight, this one probably needs no more introduction. This is Of Blood and Fire by Ryan Cahill. The traditional published edition published by The Broken Binding Publishing is that now is out now. If you are following Ryan or The Broken Binding, you might have seen uh Ryan is currently ongoing his epic uh tour across America, uh United Kingdom, and also soon Australia. It is It is insane. It is truly insane of what what he's doing right now, but at the same time I can't help uh but be proud of Ryan for his for his achievement. Uh Ryan and also The Broken Binding, I've been supporting them ever since the start of their career, and it's surreal to see how far uh they have come uh since then. But the The Broken Binding Publishing edition of Of Blood and Fire, the first book in the Bound and the Broken, this uh dragon-rider epic fantasy is out now. And then moving on uh to the next one, this is for Hammerfall by Rob J. Hayes. This is the newest title in the God Eater Saga. And the God Eater Saga is a series that I really, really enjoyed. I love that series. Whether it's Herald, Deathless, or Demon, I love them all. All three uh start of a new series in the God Eater Saga, I don't know, collection probably. But yeah, uh I loved it. And this is Hammerfall. Hammerfall supposedly takes place after the end of Herald. So yeah, this is the newest one uh chronologically. And I haven't read this one yet, but this is a short one. It is only about 200 pages long, and I heard uh from plenty of people that I'm featured in this book, and I really need to get around to reading this. I really love uh Rob J. Hayes' books, especially the God Eater Saga and Immortal Techniques, and I'm confident I will end up enjoying Hammerfall uh as well. But this is the premise. How long can a cause remain just when painted in the blood of innocents? They named her the Starhammer once, hero to some, monster to many more. First into the breach at the shattering, anointed in the blood of a thousand demons. The loss of the legendary Valker, but the Starhammer is dead, or so all the stories tell. Amidst the soaring trees and haunted slopes of the primals, Salita relies on the forest to provide and cares for her family. Nothing is more precious to her than her daughter. It is a simple life. It is a peaceful life. It is a lie. When bandits raid the primals, burning towns and stealing children from their beds, Salita has no choice but to lend her axe to the rescue. Volcanic giants spew ash into the sky. Demonic bears claw the forest to splinters. And there are even rumors the kin, half man, half beast, serve the raiders. All the terrors of the old world stand against her. With a severe threat as a guide to rescue the children, Salita may need to bring the Starhammer back from the dead. But will it be the hero who rises from the grave or the monster? For the remaining books in the month of February, just like Hammerfall, well, all of this will be a self-published books. All noteworthy self-published books. And the next one that I want to spotlight, this is for the Banners of Red by Michael Michael. And this is the third novel in the Dreams of Dust and Steel. And this one this series just keeps on getting more and more popularity as it goes. And this I think has been pitched and also has been praised by many of the fans to be the best of this series so far. This is a grimdark character-driven grimdark epic fantasy. And I have read only the Price of Power. I really need to get around to reading uh the sequels as well. And speaking of sequel, well, the sequel to Plot of the Cabal by Baptiste de Pape and Woo, which is the Voice of the Cabal is out now as well. I got the pleasure to meeting Baptiste when I was in Japan this year. Sorry, last year. Yeah, when I was in Japan last year. And yeah, I got the book signed by him. This is a Demon Slayer or Japanese or Shinto inspired epic fantasy novel. And I really want to read this one. I have a feeling that as a fan of Japanese manga, anime, and also storytelling in general, I think I will have a blast reading Yat Mono Gatari story. And next we have a self-published fantasy novel that has been making the rounds around the Bookstagram community. And yeah, this is for The Price of Fear by Miles Lyon. I believe the book is currently on its way to me right now. This is one of those self-published fantasy books that I really, really want to read before the year and I really hope I can make that happen. But again, just like always, I cannot plan these things properly now because there are just too many books that I need to read as soon as possible. But The Price of Fear has often been compared and also recommended to fans who love Empire of the Vampire and also The First Law series by Joe Abercrombie. Empire of the Vampire is by J.A. Kristoff and of course I'm a big fan of The First Law and I love Empire of the Vampire. I gave that book four stars rating. And of course, just from a narrative in general, [clears throat] I really need to read The Price of Fear. For a godless like Azrael the Wretch, peace might be a more profitable time but it's no less bloody. A decade into armistice with the Innat the North, once united against invasion, finds itself a divided kingdom. Azrael, an infamous mage of the northern military, operates in his native land as a contract killer employed to hunt traitors by a king who is squabbling against his would-be usurpers. But when the completion of his latest bounty unveils a foreign plot to dethrone the North altogether, Azrael is the only one who can cross the border and respond in kind. Or he would have been until betrayal at the final moment resulted in his killing of the wrong man and capture by those that he spent half his life fighting. Now imprisoned and waiting his execution for the murder of an Innacian crown prince, Azrael finds himself across the interrogation table from Anamiera Al-Streit, a career criminal investigator. Anna is tasked with extracting the truth behind the assassination or dying in failure. Linking the two through one last story that could save of both their gruesome ends. Possessed of few friends, countless enemies, magic plates that feeds on his emotions, and the haunting rumors of how he won his name, Azrael the wretch narrative pits him against traitorous conspiracy, brutal magical feuds, and broken promises of love. And if there is any hope of making it out of life at its end, he'll need to conquer the price it cost him to pay in the tail, fear. And finally for the last books in the month of February and also crossing over to the month of March, we have The Cure for Living by Nicholas Eames. So, yeah. This is part one and this is part two. So, part two is much thinner compared to part one, but this is the sequel to Dreams of the Dying, one of my favorite fantasy books of all time, and I'm excited to find out the conclusion to Jespar story line here. But, yeah, the As you can probably see here, this is the hard cover edition, and if you know Nicholas Eames, he always go all out with producing his hard covers. And this not only this premium hard cover comes with an acid-free paper and sewn binding, it also comes with many beautiful colored illustrations at the back of the book. Like this map by, of course, my favorite cartographer, Francesca Berit. And yeah, this is just one of them. Let's take a look at the back here. Here we have characters, and then see? Clothing, Children of the Sea story, and yeah, it's a lot. It's a lot. I haven't read this book yet, but of course, this is one of my most anticipated books of this year, and I really want to read this one as soon as possible because Dreams of the Dying was just amazing in my opinion, and this is the last one. The Cure for Living uh part two. So, yeah, thank you so much to Nicholas uh for sending me these copies, and I hope I can get around to this uh sooner than I hope. And now we finally arrive in the month of March. First, we have The Book of Fallen Leaves by Alex Tamaki. So, this is a Japanese or a samurai uh inspired story. It has been pitched as Orbit uh as the Game of Thrones um meets uh Shogun. So, this is the premise of the book. San Hoshi'ada son of a trader, is determined to restore his decimated clan to their former power at any cost. But, when his path collides with that of Rui, a lowborn woman who once saved his life, he discovers his family ambitions may have paid a darker price than he ever knew. And as onryo, vengeful demons, rise throughout the land again, demanding retribution for their slaughtered souls, he's torn between loyalty to the family he's searched for his entire life and the love of his closest friend. Only now his reunited family and their allied forces will stop at nothing in a blossoming civil war against the empire they once served. And the more they kill, the worse the demons will become. To save their world, San and Rui must join the conflict and find a way to forge peace, even if it means being cursed by the very gods who once protected them. And at the end of the month of March, we have three books releasing near each other all at once. So, the first one we have Daughter of Crow's by Mark Lawrence, the first book in The Academy of Kindness trilogy, and I have the pleasure of reading this one already. I really enjoyed it. I think it is the best uh first book of a series ever since Red Sister by Mark uh Lawrence. Out of all of Mark Lawrence's books that I have tried, this is the second uh best first book of a series. Uh Red Sister is still my favorite. But, if you want to know uh my full thoughts, I have posted my review of Daughter of Crow's on Goodreads and also Novel Notions uh well, as spoiler-free as possible. But, if you just want to know the premise, well, here it is. The Academy of Kindness exists to create agents of retribution, cast in the image of the Furies, known as the Kindy ones, against whom even the gods hesitate to stand. Each year, 100 girls are sold to the Academy. 10 years later, only three will emerge. The Academy's hall runs with blood. The few that survived this decade-long nightmare have been forged on the sands of the Wound Garden. They have learned ancient secrets amid the necrotic fumes of the Bone Garden. They leave its gates as avatars of vengeance, bound to uphold the orders of loss. Only the most desperate will swallow Only the most desperate will sell their child to the Kindnesses, but Rue, she sold herself. And now, a lifetime later, a long and bloody lifetime later, just as she has discovered peace, war has been brought to an old woman's doorstep. And next, we have the sequel to Grave Empire. So, this is Steel Gods by Richard Swan. Again, I really enjoyed reading the Empire of the Wolf trilogy, but I haven't got a chance to read uh Grave Empire yet. If you have read that book, let me know whether you enjoyed that more or uh the story of Conrad Von Valt uh in Empire of the Wolf trilogy more. But, I think with Richard Swan, I will be guaranteed a great reading experience, and I look forward to reading Grave Empire and Steel Gods. And finally, the last book in today's video, the last book in today's spotlight, this is on The Champion of the Fallen by M.L. Spencer. This is being released on the last day of March. So, uh this is the sequel to Dragon Mage. So, not only the Cure for Living uh the sequel to Children of the Dying is coming this month, well, Champion of the Fallen is coming this month as well. And yeah, uh this is as I said, a sequel to Dragon Mage. Before all the rise of this the resurgence of this dragon rider epic fantasy like the Bound and the Broken, uh the Echo Saga, the Ascendant, uh the Song of the Chaos, uh well, we had Dragon Mage. This was published uh Dragon Mage was published in 2020, if I'm not mistaken. And now, finally, after more than 5 years, Champion of the Fallen will be out soon. And I just got the advanced reading copy. Again, I don't know when I will be reading this one, but it will be soon. It will be as soon as possible. And I hope it will be just as good as Dragon Mage. So, yeah, that's the top 15 Noteworthy Release for the first quarter of 2026. I don't know whether I will be compiling these into one video again for the next quarter or maybe just do it monthly. We'll see what my schedule allows, what my life and schedule allows. But again, thank you so much for watching my videos. Do let me know what you think about all the books that I talk about in today's video, which one you have read, which one you enjoyed the most. And of course, just like always, thank you so much for watching and thank you for your support. Bye-bye. Lastly, I want to say thank you so much once again to all my patrons who keep on supporting me.
