[1] Top 200 Fantasy Rankings: Who Is a First-Rounder in 2025? — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XxfzHLnvWgw

Welcome to the brand new Zack Low Show. That's right. I'm back to have the same in-depth NBA conversations you're used to. We're going to talk about the games. Yeah, the games, the X's and O's, the drama, the trades. The playoffs are coming up. And now you get to see every episode in full on video on Spotify and on my own YouTube channel. Episodes drop every Monday and Thursday with a collection of guests you're going to love. So, make sure you follow and subscribe to the brand new Zack Low Show on Spotify or wherever you watch or listen to your podcast. Let's [Music] go. Welcome to the Ringer Fantasy Football Show. My name is Danny Hitz and I'm joined by Danny Kelly and Craig Horlbeck. And today we are going over our top 200. Well, that's kind of a lie. Our top 200 players are live on the fantasy football. We're not going to go over 200 players right now because that's too many. But we are going to go over the first round. But yes, DK, our fantasy rankings are live at fantasy football. Heck yeah. Go check it out. It's going to be we're going to, you know, continue to improve the draft guide as it goes along with blurbs and everything that you need. But right now, you can go look at our early rankings and and make fun of us and get mad at us if you want. Blurb sounds like one of those workplace platforms. Blurb. Yeah, it does. We're going to sign into Blurb. Oh, and you can log your hours on blurb. Oh, we'll come back to this at the end. We'll do some real football here up top. But just a reminder, that guy offered to name a workplace platform for something in Wisconsin and we have to come up with the name. I think we want to No, it's Flee. Flee. Okay, name the thing Fle. We voted on it. Anyway, we'll come back to that at the end. Okay, we're going to jump in here. So, basically again, so we have our rankings up at fantasy football.com. Dynasty stuff is coming too. Dynasty rankings, all that jazz. Uh, I just want to dive in with just straight up like reddraft 2025 rankings. The number one player I feel like there is. And so what we we averaged our rankings and there's really just a two-man race for the number one player for 2025. Our number one player is Jamar Chase, the receiver for the Bengals. You guys had him first and Saquon Barkley second. I had Saquon first and Jamar Chase second. Tomato Tomato. Honestly, as I started prepping for this episode, I was like, I probably should have had Chase number one. Um, but I feel like DK, it's fair to say either of those guys you could take first. And that really is the tier here is like you could take them first and it's fine. Saquon Jamar Chase. Anyone else who it's okay, but it's probably a little weird to take them over. Uh, is that how you feel? Yes. No one's going to scoff if you take Saquon Barkley first overall, I don't think. Well, no, no. I'm saying I'm saying Squan or Chase. I'm saying anyone else you might get scoffed. If you take a running back over Saquon, a receiver over Chase, people are going to make a little sound, right? And I think both of those are the clearcut obvious ones. But also at the same time, while we're talking about this, I just keep getting the thought like we're ranking based off of what happened last year. And very likely neither of these two guys are going to be the number one overall player in 2025. Um that's just kind of that never happens. And that's what honestly that's why Saquon's number two for me is that I feel like it's just not going to happen again. Like the odds suggest that Saquon will probably he's probably not going to be outside of the top 10 at running back, but he's probably not going to be number one. Like the odds suggest he'll be like fifth. Well, well, it could be wor worse than that because Do you guys want the case for these two or the case against right now? Uh, give me the case against Saquon and Chase. I think that's more interesting. Yeah, I because Yeah, that's fair because the case for Saquon and Chases, honestly, nothing's changed for them. Like, that's kind of it. The Bengals brought everyone back like Joe Burrow, T. Higgins, Jamar Chase, Mike Cassiki, the Bengals are back. Eagles, nothing changed. That's the case for them. Everyone else, something's different. The case against Saquin is really simple. Saquin touched the football almost 500 times last year. Like if you like he had the most rushing yards in the history of the NFL in a season if you include the playoffs like over, you know, almost 20 like over 2500 rushing yards. Seek like 470 touches. And if you look at the list of guys who had almost 500 touches in a season, I mean, I'm just going to go through this. I mean, first of all, most touches in a decade. Saquon had the most since Demarco Mur Murray in 2014. The next season, DeMarco Murray played just eight games. And then Aaron Foster had 460 touches in 2012. And the next season, Adrien Foster played just eight games. And then Derrick Henry had crazy carries in like 2019 and 2020. And the next year, Derrick Henry played just eight games. And then Larry Johnson in 2006 had almost 500 touches, and the next year he played just eight games. And then Edan James in 2000, the next season he played I mean six games. But the point is it's like really crazy consistently how how frequently people with that many touches just played half just couldn't physically withstand it. Not saying that's like some definite thing for Saquin, but that's the risk. And it's funny because you know Squin is a guy who's been banged up a little bit in his career. So this is a good argument. Hi Fitz. It's funny because the one guy who kind of bucks that trend is Derrick Henry who every year were like ah Derrick Henry's going to fall off. He had 300 plus touches once again and then every year he's awesome and yet he's the one guy where every year we go in and we're like ah it's over for Derrick Henry and then he and then he defies that every single year and yet we continue to not put him in the top five and Saquon is kind of like the opposite of that where this is this I mean it kind of happened to Cooper Cup where like Cooper Cup had the giant year and then it never happened again. Not saying that's going to happen to Saquon but yeah that I mean of course that's always how it goes. You're going to overpay for Saquon this year because he's probably not going to be the number one overall player in like you will probably overpay. But you you have to if you want Saquin Barkley, you should have to overpay. I'm sitting here talking about injuries again in [ __ ] May. I feel like I when Jack the Giants took Jackson Dart, all my Giants fan friends were excited and I I I watched the Debbie Downer SNL video where they're at Disneyland and Debbie they're taking a picture with Goofy and Debbie Downer turns to Goofy and he's like, "Are you worried about dying in a terrorist attack?" And that's how I feel talking about Saquon Barkley's gonna get hurt in May. The odds suggest he's not gonna hold up against That's That's what outliers are. They're out They're outliers. He probably statistically can't hold up to the punishing physical toll. Oh, and I just found out I can't have children. No, there are other guys that did it. Leedian Thomas did it a couple years in a row. Zeke Levian Bell did it two years in a Maybe that's a bad example because the LJ literally refused to play football. Um, Marshon Lynch did it two years in a row and then retired. He does it every year. Derek does it every year. So the other guy, honestly, Christian McCaffrey did it and then to needed a year to like 2019 and then played two games and then he did it. It's happened a lot. But anyway, uh, so that that's the argument we get sick once. So yeah, I'll probably move him down from one to Who else you going to take over first overall? That's the thing because and that's so it's still going to give you a really high floor either one of these guys, right? Even if they're not the number one player in fantasy again. Exact. I mean, every game play sick on plays, we will rank him first. And and again, the other thing we didn't mention is that if they if all these other teams, the cowardly Green Bay Packers and Matt Lafler, the football genius who frankly scared to compete, succeed in getting the tush push banned. There's a chance Squan could be even better cuz that dude at 2,000 rushing yards, he only had 13 touchdowns. I mean, I think if the tush push gets banned, it's fair to say Squan could there's a chance he gets 20 touchdowns. So, he could he could do better. like that is absolutely on the table. Even if he goes from 2,000 yards to 17, the touchdowns can make up for that. So, we'll see. Pop quiz. Can you name the Eagles new offensive coordinator? Oh, it's some MPC name. I don't remember his name. It's it's some fake dude. I don't know. No, I've never heard of him. Kevin Patulo or Pull. Oh, yeah. I'm not sure. He's a Serriani guy, right? I mean, they're all ser guys. Yeah, he he was with the team for the last since 2021. So, he's like the passing game coordinator last year and assistant head coach. So that's clearly the the first tier, right? It is Chase, Seaquan, and then the there's a tier break. How big do you think the next tier is? Uh I So my tier, and I call this people you could take third, and nobody would say anything like no one's going to be like, "That's weird." I thought the people you could take third, and it's totally fine. I have and and it's our next four guys. Bean Robinson, the running back for the Falcons. Jir Gibbs, running back for the Lions. Justin Jefferson, receiver for the Vikings. CD Lamb receiver for the Cowboys. I think there is no question you could take those guys third. There's not a peep. If you want to put Derrick Henry in there just out of principle, that's fine. Uh DK, do you agree with that tier? Like those guys could go. That's like fantasy that's fantasy royalty right there other than Jason Barkley. Um I feel like some combination of those guys are going to go in the top six basically in almost every draft other than maybe some some rookie, you know, some rookie might sneak in there and we'll talk about him in a little bit here. Can I ask you guys a question? I want to I want to double click on something as the kids say. I don't kids don't say that. Um, you say flick at it. People trying to sound like kids say that. Um, Justin Jefferson, I have him sixth. You both have him fourth. Are you guys not a little worried about the fact that there's this quarterback JJ McCarthy throwing to him who's never played an NFL game coming off a pretty weird knee injury who had pretty limited production at Michigan and we're all just kind of like ranking Justin Jefferson kind of at the exact same place we always do. And I know that sure Kevin Oonnell the head coach of the Vikings like made Josh Obs relevant for a month basically made Sam Darnold hundred million dollars. I know the guy's kind of like a like a magician, but does that does that worry you at all? Because to me, when I look at somebody like Aman Russ St. Brown, I'm like, man, is the upside of Justin Jefferson really worth the downside of JJ McCarthy being awful compared to somebody like Aman St. Brown who was just like 1300 yards, 12 touchdowns every year. I mean, I'm not going to lie. I mentioned this in January when we did our blind rankings when the season ended and I had Justin Jefferson lower and you guys screamed at me. Well, you had him like really low. I think I had him like 10th because of the JJ McCarthy thing and you guys called me insane. I don't know if that was me. That was probably DK. I'd have to go back and check the tape on that one. Um I don't remember that specifically, but you're right. These are all salient points, Craig. Um I I think yeah because you were saying like sort of is is the upside worth the risk of the downside. I think if you going for floor am 100% makes sense you know taking him over a guy like Jefferson but I just think we've seen the ceiling of what we what Jefferson can do. If you go to pro football reference on Justin Jefferson his yards per game is in gold. It's like a little highlight because that's when he's the all-time leader in something. You get a little gold thing. Justin Jefferson's the all-time leader in receiving yards per game at 96 and a half. literally the time leader. I think it's really just it's it's almost like a respect ranking. You just you respect the player so much it almost doesn't matter what the quarterback situation is. I mean last year Sam Darnold was like coming into the year did you expect Sam Darnold to do that? Not to say that that's what JJ McCarthy is going to do because it's a whole different ballgame. But I don't know. I just feel like yeah it probably is a rank and not think too much about it type of situation for me where I was just like yeah Justin Jefferson goes here because We're putting them at best case scenario like last year he was the third best wide receiver in fantasy on a points per game basis right number three and I'm like all right so he was the third best wide receiver with Sam Darnold having I mean like the 99th percentile of outcomes that could have possibly happened for Sam Darnold and it's like so that so basically for Justin Jefferson to deliver on where you're taking him JJ McCarthy would need to have Sam Darnold season last year. Well, first of all, Vik Well, no, because Justin Jefferson's had 1400 yards receiving every season of his career with the exception of the one time he hurt his hamstring and that's you're doing it with Kurt Cousins who's a good competent quarterback and then Sam Darnold who had an alltime season. I agree. I think Vikings fans are losing their mind. The argument for Justin Jefferson is he's genuinely probably going to go down as one of the 10 best receivers in NFL history. Like Justin Jefferson actually incredible. I agree though. You know what I don't like about the MJ McCarthy thing? because he was hurt and I feel like there was a setback with his knee and the knee miniscus and all so he's basically one of the first quarterbacks to ever be taken in the first round. He's going to miss his whole year for for injury and now it's like we hear from him and it's kind of like like we're getting signed to life update. It's like the idea that he appears in public, you know, one of these practices and it's like he's alive, thank God. And I'm like I just I also I don't like that they're like flirting with Rogers that there's reports that like they might think about bringing in another quarterback. I'm like I just don't like any of that. I think it's just one of those you have to accept the range of outcomes. I think there's a chance that JJ McCarthy getting mental reps for a year and he's doing virtual reality or whatever and he comes in and he's fine. But I agree, we are fundamentally expecting him to do something that he's never done, which is support an actual high octane offense. Yeah. If the Oculus is going to save JJ McCarthy's career, all this being said, Craig, you have you have him ranked two whole spots different than us. Yeah. Okay. That means a lot at the top. Craig's like, "I draw the wall." Like, I'm smart. You're stupid. You guys are not worried about this enough. 25% lower than you. Craig's grand plan is I'm going to move him behind CD and uh [ __ ] Jir Gibs. That's your I mean, that's fine. I get that. That's fine. I mean, we're splitting hairs up here at the top. He's the best of the best. LeBron being the second best of all time versus the the best of all time is a big difference. They say move the [ __ ] move. I'm going to move Justin Jefferson after this probably. Let's Nice. Greg's going to win his battle from fourth to sixth. Move him to sixth overall, I think. Okay, wait. Can I just make So, I want to make my case for CD Lamb. I want to talk about CD Lamb because I have him above Justin Jefferson and I feel like he's going to be there's always a couple stars who have a mediocre year for whatever reason the year before and he's kind of already had his like famous big breakout moment. He became awesome. Then the next year it didn't work out. And then he kind of settles in this this, you know, in the court of public opinion where it's like, oh yeah, everybody knows CD Lamb is CD Lamb is good, but like he's not as sexy as Jamar Chase. He's not as sexy as Justin Jefferson. You have guys like Brian Thomas and and you know, whatever. Nico, like there's just like new names that have been Puka Nua that are like now in the conversation when and I feel like CD who just a year ago had 1700 yards just like Justin Jefferson did or just like Jamar Chase did last year. CD Lamb is now getting theoretically a healthy Dak Prescott back. There's really still no other wide receivers there for CD Lamb. And last year, you know, Dak got hurt. He had the hamstring injury, missed half the season. When he was playing with with Dak Prescott, he averaged 15.2 points a game, which was the wide receiver four. And so I'm like, I kind of think CD Lamb's floor and ceiling is higher than Justin Jefferson's. Yeah, that's I mean, I have I mean, I have no argument with that. I mean, CD Lamb like he's probably going to lead the the NFL targets. Uh, the other thing with CD Lamb is it's totally possible CD Lamb is still getting better. CD Lamb is Tyler Shuck's age. He's just he's like I can't believe it, but I feel like CD Lamb is is kind of boring is not the right word because he's not boring, but like I don't know. The Cowboys is there's just something about them and him that's like not sexy, I think, in fantasy right now. No, that's a good point because No, I see what you're saying though because weirdly for a guy that is the receiver for the Dallas Cowboys. CD Lamb is almost just kind of handwaved into this conversation with all these great receivers where I think frankly because the LSU guys just get all the shine nowadays between like Jefferson and Jamar Chase and um Malik Neighbors and Brian Thomas and CD's just kind of there. But frankly the I think the biggest moment of CD's year last year was the being blinded in the sun during the Eagles game. Like that was the most notable thing that happened to him the entire year was him being like I would like curtains and Jerry Jones was like no. Like that was the biggest thing that happened to him. I know. Like I'm trying to think of the comp for him and like the NBA or something, but he's just like maybe the best receiver in the league and he's not really discussed as as much. People would still put him there obviously, but in terms of fantasy I feel like I feel like maybe where Devin Booker was two years ago before the Suns imploded. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Oh, I don't know if it's like Yeah, I don't know. But anyway, I I see what you're saying. I have no argument. I think I think you could take CD3. You could take CD2 if you really wanted to. Um, but no, CD is incredible. And I think he's right there with CD and Jefferson. And the other two are is Bjan and Jir Gibbs. You guys have Bejian Robinson three. I have I have him behind Jir Gibbs. But I think this is another example just like you're saying Sidi Jefferson. same sim similar thing to me where Jamir Gibbs the question is just it's just l like there's no questions about Gibbs like he's incredible he's young he's like so fun to watch he's a fun player to have on your team and the question is just honestly Ben Johnson left the Lions it's the same question for Jir Gibbs as it is for Amanra it's just like okay like what if the team gets worse because Ben Johnson left and then there's Bejian who was just consistently like just the top four running back the entire season and exploded actually when Michael Penn uh took over And you can go with whatever order. I kind of want Shamir Gibbs because unlike he actually wants to be a football player and Bean Robinson actually wants to be an actor which is kind of my tiebreaker. I don't know about you. Such a boomer take. Good lord. Um I think I I have a hard time like differentiating between the two because I think they're both sick. So with with Gibbs obviously like you said the question is what will the offense be like with Ben Johnson gone? How how different will it be if any if at all different? Maybe they'll just kind of continue chugging along because they have such good talent. Um, the thing that came to mind when when I was thinking about Gibbs was something that Craig would say every [ __ ] week on Sunday is like, "Oh, look, here comes another Lions rushing touchdown." Like every cuz I think I don't remember you had like Amar Ross. I had Jared Goff and he would never [ __ ] throw the ball inside the 10. Craig's like, "Great, they're in the red zone again. Here comes another [ __ ] rushing touchdown." Um, so last year the Lions ranked second in rushing touchdowns. They scored 29 rushing touchdowns as a team. Um, and then the year before that they were tied for first with 27 rushing touchdowns. So, I guess the the concern would be with Gibbs is just regression to the mean in terms of the amount of times they score at the on the ground. Like maybe G maybe Goff is just going to toss 40 touchdowns this year and it's just going to look a little different. Well, I that reminds me of a different Craigism from last year, which is fantasy offseason, which is where we're like the Lions led the league in touchdowns. That's bad. They score so many touchdowns that that's terrible. They'll score less going forward. You want one of the teams that have fewer touchdowns cuz they'll score more. I don't have strong opinions between Bejon and Gibbs to be honest. I feel like they're so in the same tier. I literally and I think that I feel so strongly the top six is or not the top six but the like Jamar Chase you could take first but these six players as DA said I think is perfect. fantasy royalty, Chase, Saquon, Bejan Gibbs, Jefferson, Sidi, top six. And then I it depends if you want to put Derrick Henry there because part of me you could be like that's the definition of fantasy royalty. The flip side is you're basically betting on a 31-year-old running back for like what feels like the first time ever um as like a you know a top five pick. We have the next six players we have here. We have Amanra and I'm curious where so I for lack of a better term I have this tier as guys you could take seventh with a straight face. I kind of had you that's the most Bill Simmons ranking of all time. Well the top 13 guys that you could take in the top 35. But I I mean it though because if you have the fifth pick and you grab one of these other guys I'm a little I don't know there's better people available. But you look at I I think there's seven players you could take with the seventh pick. like Aman Rah, Derek Henry, Ashton Genty, Brian Thomas, Malik Neighbors, Nico Collins, Puka, Devon H. I think you could take any of those guys at the seventh pick, honestly. Yeah, sure. I think I generally agree with that. We're all a little bit the the biggest differences here is I have DK and I have Brian Thomas much higher than you do, DH. Is that is that because you think Travis Hunter is going to come in and take over Jacksonville and Brian Thomas is going to fall back a little bit? Well, they're gonna have Brian Thomas play quarterback. The greatest player in football history is gonna take over. Yeah. No, as I was looking at this, I was like, I am wrong. Brian Thomas needs to be higher and I I need to update my ranking and I will do it after the show because Brian Thomas, I have him 17th and frankly just like I have a giant tier of 17 players that I think are like the top 17 guys and I was just wrong. Like Brian Thomas, the more I think about it, I'm actually really excited about that Jaguars team and Liam Cohen in Jacksonville. I I I think Brian Thomas absolutely I I I think if there's a guy that you're going to throw a dart here of just who actually will finish as the number one receiver that you isn't like a take to say top five but sounds like a take to say number one. I would I would be less surprised at Brian Thomas being the number one receiver than I actually would about like Malik Neighbors Nico Puka like I I kind of think Brian Thomas could be a [ __ ] monster this year. DK am I crazy? No, not at I think the the thing holding Brian Thomas back is it's, you know, beating a dead horse at this point, but his his name is just so generic that it's like John Taylor. It's like actually hard to get excited about a guy named Brian Thomas. I don't know why. Like that's just I know the junior helps a little bit. It does. It gives it it gives it something. BTJ maybe. Um but he was he was honestly so good last year. Obviously it flew under the radar for a number of reasons. Jags weren't good, all that stuff. But he Jacksonville Jaguars Brian Thomas and then the other was Malik Neighbors in New York, right? And Marvin Harrison Jr., not that he was that great, but like there was just already two more famous receivers in his class. And Roma Dunes, who didn't do all that much as a rookie either, but he was like I think generally considered to be above him when we were talking about the draft. He didn't even like throw in like Brock Bowers. There was just a lot of famous pass catches last year. Can you imagine if Brian Thomas had been named Roma Dunay and did what he did last year? But so if you look at what he did, he was he averaged 14.2 half PBR points per game, which was the wide receiver 12. He was a wide receiver one as a rookie, 75 yards per game, which is 11th, 25% target rate, which is elite. Uh almost eight targets per game, and he he did that on on like fewer targets than the average guy. He's a big play threat. Um and then you add in this Liam Cohen factor, which I'm very excited about last year with Baker Mayfield at quarterback. Obviously the the Bucks had a really good receiving court, but um so Liam Cohen was the offensive coordinator for Tampa the last couple years and I was the head coach of the Jaguars after he overthrew Littlefinger from Jacksonville and took the job coach. Right. So Baker Mayfield at quarterback Bucks were second in the NFL in pass touchdowns. They averaged the sixth most plays per game. So there's tons of plays to be had and potential in this offense. Fifth in completions per game, fourth in port points per game. Um and third in success rate. Overall, I just think this offensive ecosystem has a chance to be like way better based on the scheming and and hopefully Trevor Lawrence can finally take that jump that we've all kind of been waiting for. Um, obviously adding Travis Hunter is big. That could be kind of a downside, too, because maybe Travis Hunter steals some of the target rate that Brian Thomas is getting. But I think ultimately at the end of the day, it's going to be more of a rising tide raises all ships type of deal because the offense is just going to be better. I agree. I I I don't get too tied up with like, oh, there's another good wide receiver on the team. It's like Jordan Addison is with Justin Jefferson. Jamar Chase has T. Higgins. Like that doesn't really bother me at all. I mean, he was a rookie who had 1300 yards and 10 touchdowns last year on the Jags. And it's like Liam Cohen, Trevor Lawrence I still think is good and I still believe that like he could still take another step forward and so I don't really care that Travis Hunter's there. A rookie getting 1300 and 10 touchdowns. It's like I mean I know what else do you need to see? Yeah, I agree. I need to be higher on Brian Thomas. I think my question is would you guys So I mean Craig you have Brian Thomas seventh and Malik Neighbors 13th why do you hate Malik Neighbors? Um if it was Malik Neighbors Jr. that would be cool but it's not. Um the only the only reason why I have them six spots apart maybe they should be a little closer but uh it's not anything to do with talent. I think if if Malik Neighbors were on the Jack I just honestly I'm like quarterback coach like to be or I'm maybe not coach but like it's just the offensive situation I I think and I don't trust whatever's going on with Russell Wilson and Jameus and Dart and I'm just like Trevor Lawrence and Liam Cohen is something I feel like I can depend on much more than I can with whatever is going on with the Giants. I just had an idea. I think we might have re I think I might have just revolutionized fantasy football. Okay. Should we do our receiver rankings when we do our like should we actually every time we say the name should we make it a rule you have to say the name of of the receiver and the quarter and the quarterback. Yeah. So like to to because that kind of solves what we're talking about where it's like number one Jamar Chase and Joe Burrow tier of their own and then it's like CD Lamb and Dak Prescott, Justin Jefferson and JJ McCarthy and it kind of speaks for itself what we're trying to say because I think Brian Thomas Jr. Trevor Lawrence, Malik Neighbors, and um Russell Wilson. You know, part of me is like putting the calories next to the menu item, you know, on the Cheesecake Factory. This one has Chinese chicken salad is 1,600 calories. Okay, maybe I'll skip that one. I'm looking at this and I have Puka Nua below Malik Neighbors, but if you said I have Puka Dua and Matthew Stafford, I'm going to move him over Malik Neighbors and Russell Wilson. And as I'm looking at it, Nico Collins and CJ Stout, I'm like, maybe Craig's right. Maybe I should move neighbors down. I don't really want to live like that. Look, it goes back to my I have the worst [ __ ] attorneys. I I just would like a good quarterback with my receivers. Sue me. DK, I'm like half kidding, but actually should that not just I mean, is it kind of deductive? But part of me is like that probably should be the [ __ ] tiebreaker, shouldn't it? I mean, at the end of the day, it's like a lot of these guys are tied to talented quarterbacks. I think tie it should be the tiebreaker. Yes, I I agree with that. Um, generally speaking, there are there have been good fantasy receivers with bad quarterbacks before. But yes, in terms of just like name one the very top. Oh yeah, you like them so much. Why don't you name the top five? Um, I don't know off the top of my head right now, Craig. Look, it's tough. It's May. I don't actually remember what DK was already saying. Yeah, that we have to name. He's saying there are good receivers and bad quarterbacks. I was like, okay, Malik Neighbors last year. Yeah, there we go. That's a good example. Name five more. How about that? Um, no. Yeah. So, that's probably the right way we should go about this, which, you know, it's why I have a guy like Nico Collins kind of high because I'm like I just I just would rather have somebody in an offense where when it's third and nine, which it is a lot for Houston, I can rely on the quarterback to make a good throw and make a good decision and move the chains. I also think I'm going to my resolution for fantasy this year is more than ever, not like entirely, but I'm going to try to take 80% of the logic we usually use with fantasy and I'm going to try to add in the 20% trying to account for the actual experience you will have watching these goddamn games. and the Malik Neighbors thing, as exciting as he is as a player, you're going to want on Sundays to have like the margins really are so thin that like I'm going to want to watch CJ Stout throw to Nico Collins more than I'm going to watch Russell Wilson throw to neighbors. It's going to be just be tougher. So part of me is like that's kind of in the back of my brain as like you know if Jamus is throwing maybe you have to average it because the Jamus to neighbors experience if he plays at all would be pretty spiritual but you're probably going to ask Jackson Dart playing instead. question for you as a Giants fan. Is is the joy of betting on Malik Neighbors on your fantasy team and having both the Giants play well while having Malik Neighbors on your fantasy team is is the joy of that stronger than the pain of drafting Malik Neighbors and having him suck for fantasy and the Giants are terrible? Like which would you rather which is a stronger feeling? I think I I feel very strongly about this but my this is very much like a personality type thing. It's kind of whether you hedge your bets or not. I think there like my brother refuses to draft obviously we're all Giants fans in my family and my brother refuses to draft like Eagles or Cowboys because he hates them and I have no problem with that one because I'm just more of a realist and I mean the Giants are like two and 16 against the Eagles in the last 18 games. But also I'm just like well the worst case is if the Eagles are bad then like all right then my play you know what I mean? I don't care that much. But I the honestly Craig, it's been so long since the Giants were good in fantasy that I barely know. I don't know, man. I can't. But it's so new to me to have good players. Did it hurt? Did it hurt more if you would draft Saquon and then he was like banged up all year and the Giants suck? I think rather than you draft Saquon, the Giants make the playoffs and he's awesome and you're like, man, I what is worth it for you? You know, I actually don't think I could have answered this until the last year. Squan being good in fantasy was like completely disconnected from whether the Giants were good or not because he's a running back. I actually do want Malik Neighbors on my team. Like I enjoy having Malik Neighbors. It is fun. You're willing to risk it being a disaster even just because having him would be awesome if it worked out. Yeah, I think I'm there. I think I'm there. I kind of just want him on my team. Like he's it's it's so crazy to have like such a talented player. He averaged 11.3 targets a game last year, which is by far the most neighbors. I mean, dude, the neighbors stats are crazy. I mean, literally the first four weeks of the season, he was straight up like a top three receiver. Like the second half of the year, Neighbors was second in targets, but tied for 26 in touchdowns. So, yeah. Neighbors h I can already see he's going to get so mad at Russell Wilson. It's going to be unbelievable. Uh, the other guys I want to talk about here, DK, where you taking Ashen Genty for the Raiders? I think it's you could convince me he should go seventh and you kind of convince me he should actually go 15th. He's still a rookie running back. Yeah. Uh no, I I think you could make the argument that he goes right after Gibbs and Robinson honestly just because of scarcity of guys who are going to be three down backs in in this season. Obviously Gibbs is not even really that but he's just not such a good offense. Um Genty landing with Pete Carol is so great because you have to think Pete Carol wants to make him the focal point of the offense. Um, I think this offense could be more functional than you think it will be because uh they went traded for Chino Smith. They already have Brock Bowers, Jacobe Meyers, Genty. Um, and yeah, I mean, just in terms of volume, fresh legs relative to most of the guys in the NFL at this point, uh, tackle breaking, creation, just what they want him to be in the offense, the fact he was the sixth overall pick. If you look back throughout history, um the top 10 running backs almost immediately are always, you know, top five, top 10 running backs in fantasy. So, um there's a there's a handful that of like outliers there, but for the most part, if you're a top 10 pick at running back, you're going to produce right away. You know, I can't tell with the I think the the stink of the Raiders is still there. It's still odorous enough where when I think of Genty and the Raiders, I'm like, "Well, it's the Raiders." And then I'm like, well, yeah, but you have Pete Carol now and you have Chip Kelly. You have a real quarterback and Gino Smith. Like there are pieces here. I don't know what the It's like finding out like a like Christopher Nolan directing a Batman film. Like it's a superhero movie. Well, actually, it is Chris Nolan, so maybe this will end up being really good. I think I have to kind of retrain my brain to think about the Raiders in a different way now that they have so many competent pieces making the puzzle. You know what I mean? Yeah. This this discussion reminds me a little bit of what we were talking about with Marvin Harrison last year where we were, you know, Harrison was this generational prospect. He went third or fourth or whatever it was to the Cardinals went to an offense with a good quarterback and they just didn't really mesh that well and he had a really slow start to the season. I'm but I really don't see that happening with Genty. I I I bring that up just because it did happen so recently, but like Genty I think is a different story. What is the worst case? Is is the worst case with Genty? He has like a Leonard Fornette season where he just like runs into an an eight-man box every down and he gets 300 touches for,200 yards and he just literally literally Yes. It's it's exactly what you just said. And he plays well enough that you're going to play him every week and he's not even bad. He just isn't special. You take him first. Everyone gets you riled up about Genty and then you play him every week and he's like indistinguishable from I mean James Connor is just lapping him every week and you're kind of like why the [ __ ] did I take this guy like I think that it's always good yeah that's fantasy football because when you take Genty you're envisioning frankly Adrien Peterson like coming out as like 1 1700 rushing yards and you're like I'm getting a Hall of Fame running back and there's also like there's not very much competition in the backfield in Las Vegas. Um, I don't know. It just sets up. He's gonna play. Yeah. It's just you're you're gonna pay for the ceiling. I want to talk about another running back who's going right near him who I can't believe I have him ranked the highest because I historically like this guy kind of doesn't do it for me because it's so nerve-wracking. But Devon Achan, the running back on the Dolphins, I have him 10th. Hifitz has him 13th. DK 15th. And I I can't help I obviously know the risk is that look when Tua gets hurt it's a completely different situation and that's kind of all it is but man when Tua did play last year he was the number two running back in fans dude I I I literally have that so I have I get I think I have slightly different numbers well I took out week 18 just for a variety of reasons but if you take out week 18 Devon Chan with two in the lineup I have number three fantasy 20 points per game basically which over the course of the season that's like the number three running back basically tied with Derrick Henry like So Devonte Chin's like Derek Henry good with Chen and Henry standing next to each other. Oh my god. It's like the photo of Altuve and Aaron Judge. Uh but yeah then Devonte Chin with without Tua starting. So not including week 18. Hen had five and a half points per game. Five and a half. So that's equivalent to the number 51 running back last year. Five and a half points per game. So HN is Derrick Henry with Tua in the lineup. He is Devin Singleary without Tua and Tua for MVP. Oh, get out of here. No. Dolphins for LVP for being completely unprepared. Why the [ __ ] do the Dolphins Every year they're caught by total [ __ ] surprise that Dua is injured. Yeah, there's nothing like softer, more flaccid than the Dolphins offense without Tua in it. It's just hard to watch. It's the worst. So, and that's the thing is you're tying yourself to the Dolphins and you're going to feel like a genius and an idiot probably multiple times if you have HN and you I mean yeah to Craig's point like the upside is right there with Gibson and Bejian. I think it's just you are betting on Tua staying healthy like you are. Yeah, I think it's just far more volatile. The Zack Wilson's the backup now. You're going to be if Tua gets hurt again, you're going to be watching Zach Wilson throw in this offense and Quinn your why why is that the plan? It's a philosophical de debate basically on how you how you like to draft because if if you're sitting there at the end of the first round, if you have like the whatever the 12th 13th pick and and Achan is sitting there, it's like that's a real Ricky Bobby first or last. Like if you want to go for it, hey, it's like they're not giving out awards for third or fourth. Like you might as well just take Achan and you have a chance to get the number one running back in the league. I I don't think Why is Joe Flacco in Cleveland and not Miami? He might be eventually. I mean, I feel like Cleveland has too many quarterbacks at this point. Um, but yeah, I mean, I don't know why they're they didn't do more to solve the backup quarterback situation in Miami. OB like Zack Wilson, are you serious? He he couldn't beat out Jared Stum last year. What are we doing here? Right. Wasn't he on the Broncos? I can't even remember where he was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Him and Bon Knicks. Sean Payton gave up on him. Brother villains in a Disney movie. I just Yeah. I Hi, Fitz. You're absolutely right. I don't understand um the lack of a backup plan there in terms of this is a team that the offense completely falls apart when the starting quarterback is gone. I don't want dramatic. It's the defining feature of the Dolphins to his injuries. It's the defining aspect of the team. Who who else besides Flaco do you think would make a lot of sense there? Like oh my god, Jacobe Brassette went to Arizona. Why is Jacobe like I don't think he's great but like he's better than Zack Wilson. Yeah. I mean, even like Jamus, Jamus, that's a great example. It won't surprise me if by the time the the regular season rolls around, they have a different backup quarterback. Even Jimmy G or something like there's I I mean, I will we don't have to I don't think this is Jimmy G could do what Tua does like 80% of it. I mean, I don't dude, we could scroll through right now. I'm willing to say this. Carson Wentz is still out there. All right, good. Come. Yeah. Well, yeah. Okay, that's getting We're getting kind of ridiculous. They just they just they didn't sign they didn't resign Pro Bowler Tyler Huntley, did they? Pro Bowler Tyler Huntley. Uh the other person I want to throw out real quick, Puka Nua. Craig and I have Puka 14th, which I think I might move him up. DK, you have him ninth. Puka, I'm not going to lie, looking back at Puka, I think I underrated Puka because I did too, but I have a reason. So Puka missed five of the first six weeks and then when he came back so week eight on Puka was just straight up the top four receiver in fantasy it was like Jamar Chase's Mike Evans T. Higgins and Puka and Puka let all receivers in yards per route run and so the signed Dvonte Adams. So DK is your issue with Puka or sorry Craig is your issue with Puka is it Dvonte Adams signing or is it uh Puka looking like he's injured on every single time he gets tackled? Um, both I think are I would say I'm giving equal weight to both. Yeah, Devonte Adams I don't know. It's like is he gonna have seven, eight, nine, 10 touchdowns? Like that right there is already tough. And yeah, Puka Nukua is like the Eric Burns of football players that I don't know if you remember Eric Burns the outfielder for like the Diamondbacks and the A's and stuff or he would just go balls to the walls on every fly ball. It could be the second inning in June and Eric Burns is sprinting into the back wall and and dislocating his shoulder. That is Oh my god. Wait, that's such a good comp. He needs to talk to Tyler Lockett. I just He played 11 games last year. Like I don't know. It feels like his ceiling is like 14. I just don't He was injured in college as well. Well, and that's why that's one of the reasons he was a fifth rounder was it was a medical thing to Puka as well. And so I don't know. He's like the Spongeb if he if I could guarantee 17 games, I'd probably take him fifth. I like that. I like Dick pretending to smile through as if you knew that reference. That was good. No, you know what I was thinking that while Craig was chocolate bar, I was literally thinking I went on a walk this morning. I was literally thinking about Puka and the fact that the Rams took tight end Davis uh Davis Allen like six or seven picks before they picked Puka in the fifth round. I just think I just think the draft is so funny how this all [ __ ] works. The Rams the Rams are not some brilliant [ __ ] team because they took Puka Nakua. They're mean. Yeah, they took they took Davis Allen like six or seven picks before they picked Puka Nakua in the fifth round or fourth round or whatever. What round was it? Fifth round. Um fifth. But like I just think it's so funny how this all works. Lamar Jackson, the Ravens second pick in the first round behind Hayden Hurst. I'll never get over that. Who's not even in the league now. I'll never get over Lamar. Um, so anyways, what I but you were just hi as you mentioned like why he fell in the draft because of medicals and and he wasn't even like a full-time player for his college team because he kept getting hurt. Um, Puk is a good example of Craig identified this and I'm also trying to remember this is a real thing. There is some indeterminable amount of time that will come off your life having Puka on your fantasy team because even if he doesn't get hurt, you're gonna think Puk has gotten hurt like 50 times. Maybe that's an hour, but it might be like a year of like off your life, which that's not worth it. Yeah, he he's like like a really spicy chicken tender or something like that. You're like, man, it tastes good, but like is it really going to be worth it? like the indigestion that Puka Nua brings you every Sunday, you know, he needs to come with some Tums when you pick him. I just think the connection he has with Stafford though is I mean, you just have to bet on that. That's how I feel about that's why I've got him quite a bit higher than you guys. He just man and I'm making the case for Devon Han and not and then now making the case against Puka Nakua. We should keep track of all the contradictory things we do in our rankings constantly. Craig passionately be like we're crazy on Jefferson and he's got him like two spots off. I do this [ __ ] all the time too. I know he is the Brock. I'm going to do this right now. Brock Bowers. I have him too high, but I don't care. I'm fine with it. Yeah, you have Brock Bowers 17th. I have him 11th. I know that that's probably dumb. Like you probably shouldn't take Brock Bowers 11th because at the end of the day, everything I'm about to say, he did it one time. Having said that, Brock Bars had the most catches for a rookie ever. Not a receiver, like just a player, like a rookie player. I know 17th game, whatever. Don't care. He's a tight end. He literally has more catches than Puka did when he broke the record for. And then on top of it, Bowers had 153 targets. That's preposterous. Like, he's a tight end. Literally in the in the 21st century, the only tight ends who have had 150 targets in one season. Travis Kelce did it twice. Mark Andrews did it once. Zack Eurs did it once. That's it. Brock Powers last season. That's not rookie years. That's just ever. And so the idea that Brock Powers did it immediately. Look, you probably shouldn't because I mean it's a new so many variables. Yeah, it's a new offensive coordinator. It's Chip Kelly. They could use him differently. Like it's a new coach. They probably want to run the ball more. Like just there's a lot. He did it once. Like Kyle Pence said, yards his first season. We thought he'd be the alpha omega. Like so you probably shouldn't having said that. What if Bowowers just gets better and you didn't take and he's a tight end and he's just like one of the top six receiver productions in terms of catches and targets in the NFL and you could have him at tight end and you don't. Bors is one of the few players in the NFL that it just makes you feel good inside to have him in your lineup. You know what I mean? It's just you got it feels like you got that trump card to that you can play. It's like a it's like an ace up your sleeve. I got Bowers so nothing else matters. Yeah, sure. position. Tight end position is like such a I hate the tight end position for so many reasons. Um that's the other thing you're doing is you're just being like I'm out so I don't have to think about it anymore. Hitz, I very much agree with you. I I have no problem with taking Bowers anywhere between like whatever. You have him 11th, we have him 17th. Like I think that's totally fine. The only place where I have a nit to pick with you is you have Brock Bowers at at 11 and you have Trey McBride at 26. And to me, I would probably move it to 22. You're probably right. I I think they I mean, I think if Brock's 11, Trey should be 12. Like, I really think they should be right next to each other. I mean, if you look at what they did last year, Trey McBride scored 002 less points than Brock Bowers per game. And he scored two touchdowns that season. Trey McBride had one less catch in one less game and 50 less yards in one less game than Brock Bower. They essentially had the exact same season. Trey McBride just scored two touchdowns. And I'm kind of like, do you feel that much better about the Vegas offense versus the Arizona offense? Do you feel that much better about Gino versus Kyler? Like what is the situation in which you think Brock Bowers is so much higher than Trey McBride in terms of outcomes? No, it's really fair because of I mean when did McBride he didn't even have a receiving touchdown till like week 17, rig
