[1] Upcoming Fantasy , Sci-Fi, & Horror Books | June 2026 New Releases — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHg8v6jcUgY

This June, we have new historical fantasy from Katherine Arden and Adrian Tchaikovsky is giving us a noir-style mystery with raccoons. Hi everyone, I'm Jessica and these are the 11 sci-fi and fantasy books that I am most excited about releasing in June 2026. So, I'm going to start at the beginning of June and work my way through to the end with the 11 books that sounded the best to me. I am definitely going to be reading some of these books. I will let you know which ones, others I am considering reading and I will let you know what my thoughts are about those. But, let's just go ahead and jump right into the books because 11 is a lot of books to get through, but it looks like it's going to be an amazing month. So, we begin on June 2nd with The Heart of the Naga by Lee Young-do, translated by Anton Hur. This is being published by Harper Voyager and it is 448 pages. This is the first English translation of this series and the marketing says that this author is frequently referred to as the Tolkien of South Korea, which is certainly a label that [snorts] puts a lot of expectations out there. And this book is set in a world where there is a dividing line that different races do not cross. And to the north, we have three different races. We have fire people, we have birdmen, and we have humans. And to the south, we have the Naga. The Naga are creatures who have given up their hearts so that they could have immortality. But, one day news comes that a Naga is being sent to the north and so one representative of each of the three races to the north are sent to meet him. And what do they do when they find that this Naga actually does have a heart? They must complete their journey, figure out what is actually going on, and probably have a lot of adventures along the way if I had to guess. I love the setup of this book. It sounds so classic fantasy, but it also just sounds like it's going to have really, really cool stuff in it. I am definitely reading this one. I have an advanced reader copy and in addition to that, I am also getting this book in a book box that I subscribe to. So, I'm hoping that I love it, but I am very excited. Um certainly reading more translated fantasy and science fiction is something that I've really been wanting to do this year, and I haven't been I've done okay with, but I haven't been as successful as I would like. So, I'm really excited to read this one. Also, on June 2nd, we have Sublimation by Isabel J. Kim. This is 368 pages, and it's being published by Tor. The marketing for this one does compare it to the television show Severance, and I am currently in the middle of my first watch through of Severance. I am about halfway through the second season right now, and I am completely obsessed with this show. I cannot believe I didn't start it before. I absolutely love it. So, anything that's going to compare itself to Severance is definitely going to be of interest to me. Let me explain what this book is about. So, this book has kind of an interesting idea. The idea that when you immigrate to another country, you leave a version of yourself behind. Some people keep in touch. Some people never speak to their doppelganger ever again. Um and our main character has immigrated from Korea, and one day she returns, and she has to meet the doppelganger that she left behind there. But, what she doesn't know is that she's planning to steal her life, and that's such a cool idea. I'm so into that. Um I really, really want to get to this one. I'm looking for some early reviews to see what I'm going to think about it, but the Severance comparison has kind of sold me on it already before anything else. I'm really excited for this one. Um and I love I love kind of a high-concept science fiction. They haven't always been working for me lately, but I'm really hoping this one will. And the last book on June 2nd is probably my most anticipated book of the entire month, and it is The Unicorn Hunters by Katherine Arden. It's 368 pages, being published by Del Rey. Katherine Arden is the author of The Winter Trilogy starts with The Bear and the Nightingale which is a series that is I think very beloved. Lots of people really love that. That is historical fantasy set in Russia. And this book is historical fantasy that is set in France. Our main character is Anne of Brittany. She is the Duchess of Brittany. And what she's trying to avoid is marrying someone from the French royal family and therefore losing the idea of Brittany as a as a separate place. So she has a secret betrothal going on. And she's trying to have that happen before she can be sent to marry the Frenchman that she doesn't want to marry. And in this world there is a magical woods which is enchanted and no one can divine things inside of the wood and also every once in a while somebody sees a unicorn. So she organizes a unicorn hunt. And things happen from there. So that's the blurb for that book. I think it sounds so good. I love historical fantasy. I don't know that much about this time period in France so I am excited to find out more and I love unicorns. And I think the cover is gorgeous. I love this cover. I'm definitely definitely unless I really don't like the book which seems unlikely I'm I'm definitely going to be buying this one because I really want to own that cover. I think it is gorgeous. Now we're to June 9th and we have The Traveler by Joseph Ecker. This is 384 pages being published by Tor. The Traveler is described as both a reluctant time traveler story as well as the story of a relationship between a father and a son. And those are things that really get me when they work all together. We are following a man who one morning finds that his wife has been frantically texting him and he has missed calls and she can't find him because at 7:00 that morning he traveled through time just a little. And then every day after that at 7:00 in the morning he travels forward in time and it doubles each time. And so, it's about that, which is interesting, but it's also about his relationship with his son who is growing up very, very quickly while for him each day he's traveling further and further away from him. And I am just so fascinated by this premise. It sounds like it could be a really beautiful and emotional story. I'm really hoping it's going to be a really beautiful and emotional story. Definitely going to be checking out some early reviews of this and seeing if it's something I might want to add to my TBR, but I'm very intrigued by the premise. Next on the 9th, we have Our Sister's Keeper by Jasmine Holmes. This is 336 pages being published by Bindery. And I do actually have a copy of this because it came out early from Aardvark. I haven't read it yet. And this is a story of Thea. It's set in Mississippi in 1927 and Thea and her husband have arrived at an all-black free town in Mississippi. And the interesting thing about this town is that the women of this town actually have the ability to draw painful and bad thoughts out of the men. Um and so, the men are very carefree while the women suffer from remembering all of the things that have happened to them. And I have seen this described as like a fantasy horror book. I don't know a lot more about it than that other than that kind of historical setting and and I am so intrigued by this one. I think it has a gorgeous cover. I love trains. So, let's take a look at the train. Um I think that's lovely. And I am very excited to read this one. I'm sure it's going to have a lot of kind of hard-hitting social issues, which I am really excited to read about. Um I am probably going to have this one on my June TBR. I haven't decided yet. I haven't done my TBR for the month yet, but I am hoping to be able to get to this one and see how I feel about it. Now, we are to June 16th and we have Kill All the Wizards by Jedidiah Berry. This is 144 pages being published by tor.com. So, I love a novella and I love a novella that seems like it might be kind of cute. Um I love the title, which is Kill All Wizards. It's part of a series or the start of a series, The Barbaric Ledgers. And I'm actually going to read you the really short description because I'm not going to do it justice. The barbarian traveled far to consult the wizards of the empire. Instead of lending their aid, they ensorceled him, exploited his strength, and stole his sword. They should not have done that. Now the barbarian plans to kill every wizard who wronged him, even if that means blending in with their vile society, dressing in finery, taking tea in exclusive clubs, and reserving the best box at the theater. Oh, he hates it all with a fiery passion of his savage heart, but not as much as he hates those wizards. That sounds cute. It sounds very cute, um and I am really excited to read that one at some point this year. I try to read all of the novellas that come out. I don't always succeed, but I try to read a lot of novellas. Um I love short books. I love a kind of interesting and funny book, and this one looks like it's going to be very cute, so it's definitely on my radar. And then we have Heaven's Graveyard by Grace Curtis. This is 368 pages, and it is being published by Daw. I really like Grace Curtis. I have read several of her books, and I just really enjoy her writing style. I don't know a ton about this one. From what I can gather from the description, it is about an archaeologist who is called back by her mentor because she has found um evidence of an ancient city, evidence of some things that um our main character has been trying to prove her entire life, but perhaps some things should stay buried. So, you know, it's a little bit of a historical-feeling kind of fantasy mystery. I do have an advanced copy of this one, so I am likely going to try to get to it. I think it might be in the same universe as some of her other books that I may or may not have read, so we'll see if I need to read those first, but I think this one is kind of a standalone. It's definitely set in a very different time period. Um and I do love something that has a mystery aspect to it, which is explicitly mentioned. So, this is one that I am cautiously optimistic about, curious, definitely going to check out. Now, on June 23rd, we have Green City Wars by Adrian Tchaikovsky. This is 368 pages being published by Tor. And so, here we are, guys. It is the raccoon mystery that you have all been asking for all this time, described as Philip Marlowe meets Redwall. Sure. Sure. Yeah. Um Yeah. So, it's a raccoon mystery. Let me tell you a little bit about it. Our main character is a raccoon private detective named Scotch, and you won't believe this. Yes, I said Scotch. Um you won't believe this, but a mouse has gone missing, and it seems some people don't want to find out where he went. So, yeah, it's a noir mystery with a raccoon private detective and a cast of animals, and I um I'm expecting that I'm going to really love it. I have an advanced reader copy of it, which I was really excited to get. Adrian Tchaikovsky is such an interesting writer for me, because there have been some of his books that are like my favorite books of all time. I particularly really, really love the book Service Model, which I know some people actually don't like at all. But some of his harder science fiction books actually have not hit for me. Um everybody [snorts] loves the Children of Time series, and I bounced off the Children of Time series. I read the first book and a half and decided that I wasn't going to continue. But I love when he does weird stuff. I think that's what I like. I like Adrian Tchaikovsky when he's being weird, and this book sounds like it's going to be weird. I'm very excited. I am hoping it's going to be a five-star read for me. Definitely going to be reading it in June. So, if that's something you're interested in hearing my thoughts about, please stick around, because I will definitely be doing a full review. Also, on June 23rd, we have Hunt the Ever Wild by A.C. Kaiser. This is being published by Angry Robot and it is 336 pages. And this is one that wasn't really on my radar at all. I saw it on um in a preview somewhere and I just I thought the cover was pretty and I thought it sounded interesting, but maybe it wouldn't be something I'd be that interested in and then I saw that the two comp titles that it gave were Witchmark by C.L. Polk, which I really really like. It's a um historical fantasy romance set in kind of like a World War I -esque world. I really love C.L. Polk. Love her writing. I think she's fantastic. And Howl's Moving Castle. So, I know everything is comped Howl's Moving Castle now, but that really intrigued me. Um this is being published by Angry Robot, so it's a small press book. And let me tell you what it's about. This is the story of a wizard and a huntress who are both on the hunt for the missing royal phoenix of this historical fantasy world for very different reasons that they are perhaps not sharing with one another. Um it's described as being gothic, but also very funny and I'm just really interested in giving this one a try. I'm not committing to reading it right now, but I definitely am going to try a sample of it when it comes out. Get the sample on my Libby app, read it, see what I think, see if it's something that I feel like I would enjoy because I think it has a lot of potential. Um the early Goodreads reviews on it are super positive. So, that is a good sign also. And I think it looks like it could be fun. And you've got to have any anything with a Howl's Moving Castle reference is at least going to get a little bit of a glance from me. And then we have The Tinderbox by M.R. Carey. This is 400 pages and it's being published by Orbit. M.R. Carey is a writer that I have really really wanted to get into and I have tried several different books, all of which I have DNF'd. And I'm not much of a DNF'er and I and I can't even really tell you why. Nothing was wrong with any of these books. They just didn't really grab me. But this one looks like it has some potential and I still want to keep trying cuz I know so many people love Marcarie's works and I really want to be one of them. So, I'm thinking about trying this one. This is a story of a former soldier and a witch. And one day a body falls out of the sky and on this body they find a tinderbox. And the tinderbox has the ability to I'm going to say grant which wishes um to definitely change the fate and the history of this kingdom. And then it is described as a tale of witchcraft and devilry and the choices that we make and any kind of language like the choices that we make sounds like something that I would really enjoy. So, I'm curious about this one. Um I if you've read an early copy of that, please let me know cuz I'm very curious about it, but I'm probably going to be reading this at some point. Um I am very intrigued by it. I love the fairy tale feel. Um that's something I've been really into lately and I think I might really enjoy it and I'm excited to check it out. And finally, on June 30th, we have All We Have Left by Emily Paxman. This is being published by Titan Books and it's 384 pages. This is a story about two sisters who are living on an island in some kind of a post-apocalyptic, post-climate change kind of future. I'm not sure exactly what has happened to the world, but it's very clear that something bad has happened. And it is a story of a woman who enters into a marriage of convenience with a man because he's promising her that her sister will be able to obtain vital medical care. And I assume it's also going to be about the story of what happened to this world and also I think it's a little bit of a romance. Um and I I love a climate climate I keep saying climate fiction, but I don't know that for sure. Um I love post-apocalyptic story and I love post-apocalyptic romance. And I love Emily Paxman's writing. She wrote Death on the Caldera, which came out last year, which is a um a little bit of a fantasy mystery story with some great world building and a train um that I highly recommend. So, I'm definitely definitely going to be reading her next book, which is this. So, I'm planning to read this this month. This is one I will definitely be reading. It may get pushed to July because it's coming out so late. I don't have an early copy of this book. Um but I'm really excited to read it and see what she's doing in a very different genre from her debut novel. I'm just so excited to see what she's going to do. So, there you have it. 11 books that I am really excited to check out that are coming out in June. This is kind of the height of book publishing season, and this is not all the books coming out this month. There are many more. These are just the ones that I am most interested in reading. If you are interested in hearing my thoughts about any of these books, I would love if you would stick around. I do in-depth reviews every Tuesday in my reading updates for everything that I read. So, anything that I mentioned I was going to read will most definitely be getting a full review from me this month. Hopefully, either the week before or the week after it comes out. Go ahead and leave me a comment and let me know which one of these books sounds the best to you. Or if I have forgotten something coming out that you are excited about, I would love if you would let me know. And if you're feeling quiet and you'd like to let me know that you were here, go ahead and leave me a raccoon emoji. I checked, it is an emoji. I am so excited for the raccoon book. I don't even know where to start. So, leave me those raccoon emojis. And I hope that you all have a fantastic day. I will see you in the next video. Goodbye. [music] [music] [music]
