[1] Top 10 Fantasy Books of 2025 (out of 57) — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aM3_B_Z0Ils

I've read 57 books this year. Some were chunky, others were weird, full of wonder, thrillers, fantasy, sci-fi. I've read books that blew my mind, others that were quite depressing, and here are the best 10. Starting with some honorable mentions because these are two books that actually I absolutely loved. So, they're here because we're an absolute highlight of this year, but not new. It's starting with one of those books that instant favorite. Sadly, book two isn't a favorite favorite favorite, but the story nonetheless it's fascinating. And I believe if you want something that feels epic, that feels plot-driven, but has great characters, then you need to give The Will of the Many a try. This book has revolutionized I think BookTube as well. This book took me by surprise, and I think by now you will not be surprised that it's a great book, but still there are so many elements that grasped my attention, and upon a reread, I loved it even more because, you know, the the ending of this book it's mind-blowing. And knowing some part of it allowed me to discover and really love and savor every part of it. I think it's absolutely great. If you want to give this one a try, it's Roman inspired, and it has kind of like the chosen one trope in a sense. So, hopefully you will like it. Another book that I read, and it was actually at the beginning of the year. It was a "Project Hail Mary" and it was an absolute highlight. I think it's the third time that I've reread it, and every time I love it even more. It's that kind of book that has a great premise, but the characters are great. And it just for me, it's therapy. And this is "Project Hail Mary" by Andy Weir. This author for me, it has something unique because when I'm reading it, I kind of want to solve stuff and face the world as the main character does, which usually is with a lot of optimism, and you know, being scrappy, and being smart. And I just hope all of those traits are with me. So, this is something that leans very into sci-fi hot sci-fi side at times because our character is up in space. He one day wakes up, and he does not know what is going on, but he knows there's a mission to save Earth, and you know, you discover everything with him because he has this blank state kind of memory, but the idea is you will go through these little pieces of discovery. They're pretty intense and dense moments, but I think all in all it's pretty easy to read. There is something else that happens here that is absolutely fantastic, and it makes this book being such an blend of emotions. It sparks really interesting conversation about what does it mean to be a hero, what are the stance that you will sacrifice, and I really really really really believe it's a great great book. But then, let's just start properly with the top 10, and let's just start with one that was a complete surprise. It won the SPFBO I don't know how many years ago, and I read this one because it was recommended, and it kind of It's not a book that I thought I was going to love, and it is Orconomics. It's this blend of You have this D&D story, but at the same time you have this very well-crafted world and economics on it, and you have this politics [clears throat] is laid out. You have this map laid out on which are the different tensions, and then we have this mission. We have this group of misfits, these different archetypes, and while you're growing, you feel that it's a book that feels very tropy, and that was strangely comforting for me as well. But it has some moments that really punched my heart. It ended with a bang. I did not expect what I was feeling, and I need to continue reading it, and it has that feeling that you want to rely on again and again and again. It's comfort brain food in a way, and I absolutely love that. In position number nine, we have a story overall that I really enjoyed this year, and it's that blend of this is funny, this is hilarious, but at the same time you know that serious stuff is going on, and that is Dungeon Crawler Carl. Specially, I loved book three, and I'm currently on book five, I believe. This year, I ran through books two, three, four, and now currently five. So, as a whole, Dungeon Crawler Carl it's been on a highlight for me this year. The narration it's fantastic. I haven't really gotten into the narrations until the last part of the year since I have my baby, and books now are narrated. What I'm getting with the story, it's not only escapism at its finest, which absolutely there is great action points, there is this constant threat that is happening, and you cannot relax with this one, but at the same time it just it really as the plot is advancing, it's giving me a hint of what are the politics, of what is happening here, what are the underlying plot, what is the revenge, how our characters grow, and I am really really enjoying it. Also, there's a sentient cat here, and I cannot say that I love this more. In position number eight, I finally finally started this quest reading one of the most popular best-selling books of all time, and I am really loving it. I believe it's giving me this a spark of I feel like a child, and it's so emotionally just heartwarming, and it just it sparks joy, and that is Harry Potter. I've read so far books one and two, and what I can say, I am really really really really really really loving it. I previously read book one when I was a child, when I was I I don't know when it was published, and I did not feel it. At the time it was like, "Meh, this is not for me." And now that I have my own child, I kind of wanted to read this somehow, and I'm loving this so hard. The feeling that I'm getting is that sense of joy and wonder, and I'm better off whenever I'm stopped reading these. I am actually going through the narrations, which are one of the best things that I've read in my entire life or listen in my entire life. Really, it's out of this world. There's a new set of narrations, which is a whole cast, and it really feels like listening to a movie that lasts 10 hours. It just It's giving me life in the late night hours when I am with the baby, waking up at night. It just It completely changed how I am facing those nights, and I am completely grateful for that. In my opinion, the author is a terrible person, and I'm not endorsing her at all, but these books are really giving something that I am loving. It's not that the story is new, not at all. Like, I knew it, but oh, I'm I'm really really loving it. In position number seven, we have one of those books that was weird as hell, and I loved it. I rediscovered why I love so much weird, twisted, almost horror books. And this leans into the sci-fi, and it's Annihilation, and I blast blown. It's one of those books that when you start reading it, you're like, "What is happening?" And so many great stuff happens because the premise is that you get into this area in which nothing gets out. Different people has gotten in, never came out, but it is expanding, and you know, weird things are happening. And we have this group of women that are going in, and it's really twisted because you don't really know their names, you just know that they have these roles, like the psychologists, the biologists, and you kind of start to personalize everyone, and what they see, and how they are changed once that they get inside, it's fascinating. It's kind of that story that when you're reading it, it's like, "Am I going crazy? Are these characters going crazy? How is this escalating so quickly?" And I'm so in for the ride. I was mind-blown beginning to end, and it's that kind of story that when I saw the movie afterwards, I was enraged because it's not at all what it's supposed to happen in the sense of what preserved the book to be so special was broken in the movie, and it just it's great. If you want to give this weird sci-fi story a try, I completely recommend. Position number six, we have a story that honestly took me two months to read, and because I wanted to read it physically, I gave the narration a try, and although it's great, and the author narrates himself, the accent I was not able to listen to it while waking up at night with low battery on my mind. So, it just I needed to read it physical, and it took me ages, and it's not that long, but I absolutely adored it, and it's The Black Tongue Thief. What it has is that it has this really smart character work, and the dialogues are to die for. It's really a blend of hilarious, but being actually really epic and action-driven and adventurous. And we have this thief that kind of joins this band and goes on a mission. It's a quest at its core, and it is one that when I'm reading it, it's not that every time stuff happens, and the stakes are really high. Like, each chapter almost felt like a mini story, but for me, the baby. I'm not sure if you can hear it, but she's crying. But when I was reading it, it just I was laughing, and it was escapism at its best. You have this witch, you have this knight-like warrior as well, and they are on to defeat goblins and defeat a terrible evil that is also emerging. And I was completely on for that ride. I really enjoyed it. In position number five, I fell head over heels with this murder mystery that is full of adventure with characters that are really different and misfits. It is so well written, and I absolutely love this author. I've enjoyed most of his works before, so I'm here for everything that Robert Jackson Bennett is doing. And in this case, I really loved A Drop of corruption, which is book two in the series. I only have book one so far, so that's why I'm displaying it, but book two, it was phenomenal. I really enjoyed book one because it was this setting, right? It has these Attack on Titan-like world-building, and you don't know what is happening. It has this really organic magic that it's linked, and we have these two detectives that are one this crazy smart genius woman, and the other is kind of like this good person that is trying just to move through the world discovering what has what is happening, and he has this magical ability in which if he smells something, then he's able to remember everything like almost like a photographic memory. And book one was fine. I read while I was completely sick and feverish, and I'm not sure if that made the story a little bit weird for me, but book two, A Drop of Corruption, I thought it was way better in the sense of the pacing was incredibly well done, and it's another murder mystery. So, you're completely all the time thinking what is happening, who did this, and but the stakes in here were like one level extra, and you know that something is happening into this world. The cracks of society are there, and it just I was like completely wanting to go to read this book time and time and time and time again. So, I really recommend if you want to get out of a slump, just get into these. They're very easy to fall into, but they give you this fulfillment sense of oh, I'm reading something that is really good, it's really well-written, and at the same time it just it has a very interesting plot, and it makes you think because you are like who did this? Let me see the different pieces of the puzzle that you're giving me. And in position number four, we go to a highlight of this year, which is I absolutely love horror fantasy books. I just love them. There's something that makes me like really go to these in one hand because I feel there's a story that is kind of fresher for me. I haven't read as many of these stories, but at the same time I just love how the horror sense of fantasy is done to Elden magic that is twisted. And for that, I have an author that I fell in love even more this year, which is Richard Swan. I read two books from him. I finalized the Empire of the Wolves series with the Trials of Empire, and I thought it was a fantastic conclusion of this story that it really it's a perfect blend of religion, of war, of adventure, and it has such a core at politics, and I think religion and politics play such an interesting part in here that I I was completely on for this drive. Book one starts being really kind of like uh we have this weird village, and something is happening, and as the story progresses, you see how our characters are going into the big city, but also how the you know, the Elden magic, the dark magic is propagating, and how the different creatures are getting, and it just ah, I loved it so much, and I read also and really loved even more Grave Empire, which is the beginning of a new series by the same author. It's placed in the same world like hundreds of year after. So, I really recommend starting with Empire of the Wolves because some of the characters are mentioned. I don't believe that you will get the references, and it's not really spoilery, but at the same time I really believe that if you start with this one, you will understand better the layout of the world. Although, it's kind of like a lot of time has passed, and it's completely different setting in a way. So, it's just it's not that linked if you want to start with it, but I I loved how it has three different perspectives, and you are following them unwillingly. There's one of them that it's a twisted person, and it's this evil-like character that you're following, and you're like, but what is happening? Why are you doing it? And at the same thing, you cannot stop reading. And the other two, one is very well-written. It's a great depiction of war and the horrors of war, PTSD, and ghosts. And it's like this has this setting that it has a vibe on itself, and it if you want to believe in magic that has kind of like these dark tentacles, this is the book for it. The other perspective it's more kind of like the test detective-esque, and it's a mystery that it's unraveling, and it has also sea creatures. I just loved it like from the beginning. It's one of those stories that you know that you're going to love. So, I really believe it that even if the is the beginning of a series, it's still like you can read it and feel really satisfied. I thought the premise is great. The old world is getting silent, and why? What is happening with the Elden magic? Why? And position number three, we have one of the most chunky books that I've read this year, and it's brought to my attention that it's actually a very polarizing story. People hate it, people loved it. I went into the category of people that loved it, and that is Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell. One of the reasons why people tend to dislike this book is because actually nothing really happens. Like it's true, and it's a full of footnotes, and it's meandering, and it just it has this British humor that you need to like in order to enjoy this book, but gosh, for me, I just I loved how it was narrated, how it was written. The story, nothing really happened, but I just was not able to put it down. Every part of this story, how it is advancing, it has kind of like mini stories, and those were very funny, very smart to me, and at the same time it just it brought like this sense of wonder, of pure magic. I think Susanna Clarke is able to bring that special spark to your world, and reading it, it's not at all like reading Piranesi, which is very short, and it is magical realism, and you don't know what is happening. In here, it also has that magical realism element, but it goes into the fae world, and you see the fae in the sense of they are evil creatures, and I just everything feels like a fever dream in a sense, and I absolutely recommend if you want something that you want to read when it's rainy, and it has this sense of magic, of wonder, and you want to follow these two magicians that are completely different, and they are trying to bring back magic to Britain because it has been completely erased, and the things that are banned are really, in my opinion, fascinating and really hilarious. One is this bookworm that does not want that it's very latest and does not want anyone to really have magic, and the other is kind of like the opposite. He's really pragmatic, and he wants to use magic for whatever it can happen and help people. And along the way, you see how their path crosses and just clash and how everything advances. Position number two, and we're getting into the top, we have uh a story that was adventurous. It has a band of misfits going through terrible dangers, and it just it's a good fun read, and that is um Red Seas Under Red Skies, which is book two in the Gentleman Bastard series. This is book one. I don't own book two yet, but I absolutely loved it. Book one is also great. I think book one is actually better than book two, but I just thought book two it's completely wild because it's full of pirates and just it was funny, and it was heart-wrenching, and you follow our characters. In book one, you have this heist at its core, and in book two, you also have that heist, but you see it being a little bit different, but you see how the stakes are higher and how our characters need to face consequences on a whole different level. If you want to give Lies of Locke Lamora, book one, a try, please do. I was fooled long as of times not picking this one up because it has flashbacks that sometimes seem to break the pacing of the story, but I absolutely love it when you know what is happening. Like these pieces that take you away for a little bit from the story are the perfect context that you need in order to savor the story. And in book two, you get this little bit as well. You have these moments in which you are off the story, but whenever you are back, you're like, oh, this is phenomenal, this is fantastic. The greatest heist of all time with characters that have these band of misfits. They are friends, and you are willing to die with them for whatever the reason they go. Like they want to be rich, which yeah, I want to. They want to be rich, they want to change the world, they want the vengeance, and it just ah, it's such a great story. And in position number one, we have a story that is also quite chunky, and I got to know it because it was recommended by readers like you on Reddit, and I was like, okay, I will give this one a try. And now, I think it's a little bit more popular. When I was reading it, I didn't hear it on book two, and I was like, well, I'll give this one a try, and I loved it from the beginning. It has such a great blend of trials, of adventure, of great characters, and that is The Raven Cycle. It's honestly a blend of dark academia with trials, with these different houses. Each house has their own kind of warrior, and they are like the heirs of these different houses kind of are competing in order to become the new emperor. Not houses as in families, but this training like setting that which for me felt like Avatar: The Last Airbender but expanded. You don't have these different You don't have the elements, but you can choose these different animals in order to reflect who you are. I was like, "What the hell is going on?" I love the main character. Also, it has a dash of romance, I think, in this story. It's the only one that really had that element, but it is completely not the main point. It's just something that happens, but it allows to feel for the characters. It just It had so many good actions. It's full of plot twist, and in my opinion, it's a story that again, even if it's just the beginning of the series, it's a great discovery. It's potentially not as well known the author, but it was an absolute blast, and I was on constantly thinking, "Who did this?" Because you have a murder at the beginning that our main character needs to solve while the trial is unfolding. And the action scenes are there, and you need to see you who of the different heirs of these houses hmm might have done it, or are they in danger? And it's a fascinating, very entertaining escapism, perfect read. I really, really recommend. Thank you so much to my Patreons who this year Thank you so much to all of you. This year has been potentially one of the wildest of my life after becoming a mom, and I am forever grateful to this community for supporting me, and thank you so much. Hope if you pick books you know let me know down below in the comments which have been your favorite books because I'm definitely here to read some of your recommendations. Bye.
