[1] I Read 40 Indie Fantasy Books. Here's the BEST of 2025. — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9frE8NNKg8

Well, Inklings, it's officially been a full year of indie fantasy reading on the channel, and I was able to add 40 books to my library, which is just awesome. And on top of that, I have another 98 submissions in the queue. So, I have a lot of work to do and a lot of reading to get done for 2026. But since we're coming to the end of the year, I know a lot of people do their top 10 lists and their favorite reads of the year, those types of things. But I wanted to do things a little bit different. So, instead of doing a traditional numbered list, I wanted to highlight all of the hidden gems that I discovered this year. That's why today I am introducing the Indie Fantasy Club Hidden Gem Award. At the end of every year, I'm going to list off all the best books that I've read from virtually unknown authors. Because that's really what I feel like constitutes a hidden gem, something that no one really knows about. Because there are things that we would call hidden gems that are really wellknown. Like Sword of Kaien is one of those that people call a hidden gem, but a lot of people know about Sword of Kagan, whereas a lot of people don't know about a bunch of these books on the shelf. So, I want to be able to just shine a brighter light to really catch those gemstones and give them the credit and the spotlight that they deserve. So, this video is going to dive into how books qualify for this award, what the award means, and of course, the 2025 winners. Let's get into it. [music] First up, let's talk about the criteria. How does an indie author qualify for a hidden gem award? The first rule should be pretty obvious, which is you have to be an indie or self-published book. And what I mean by that, cuz I know there's sometimes questions around what does indie mean ver like self-publish is pretty self-explanatory, but indie, what I mean by that is it can be a small publisher. It just can't be any of the big five or their subsidiaries. So, it has to be a small publishing house without any affiliation to the bigger, you know, tour, Penguin, Random House, those other big names. Can't have any type of ownership in the indie press that get submitted to me. But if they're small, I feel like they still qualify. They still have a hard time getting their name out there. So, I still think it's worth counting smaller presses. The second thing is that it must be an indie author submission to my channel. So there's a lot of great books out there that I plan to read, but usually those ones are more wellknown anyway, which is why I'm I'm interested in reading them. So really, in order to get discovered, it has to be submitted to me. The third thing is that the book must have less than 250 reviews. Now, the reason why I put 250 as the threshold is because I don't want to punish authors for getting reviews. I tell authors all the time to get as many reviews as possible. So, I don't want to discourage that activity and trying to drive more reviews to build the credibility of your story. I'm not going to punish any authors for that. But once it gets past that 250 threshold, I feel like it's not really as much of a hidden gem anymore because that's enough of people who have read it and know about it enough to leave a review outside of all the people that have read it who didn't leave a review. So, that's why that criteria is there. The fourth criteria is that your book can't be featured on any big influencer accounts. And by that I mean anything with over like 50,000 subscribers or followers. Again, I don't want to punish people for reaching out to other influencers. By all means, do that. I want you to try and get as much traction as possible. And I only have a few thousand subscribers. So, if you get attention from a much larger influencer, it's way better to get your book featured there. So, even if it disqualifies you from this award, you're still getting a pretty good deal out of whatever influencer is reading your books. But you have to understand, I have to maintain the integrity of the hidden gem award, that title. So, if a big influencer knows about it and their whole audience knows about it, it kind of takes away that hidden gem status in my opinion. And finally, I think an important criteria is that you can still qualify for the hidden gem award even if you submit your book to other awards like the SPFO award. I'm not going to hold that against authors so long as they meet all of the other criteria that I listed. All right, so that is how you can qualify as a hidden gem on the Indie Fantasy Club channel. Now, there are three awards that I want to talk about that I'll be giving away. And I just want to mention that really this award just goes to the best authors. I'm not going to restrict it to a certain number like five or 10. If you meet a certain criteria and meet a certain threshold, you're going to get this award. So I could one year have five that get the award. I could have another year of 20 that get this award. So it just depends. And again, I don't want to punish authors if they have a good story. I want to shine light on all the hidden gems I discover. The more the marrier. But let's get into what these awards mean and how they qualify for a certain award. The first one is the Emerald Award. This is any book that ends up with an 8.5 to an 8.9 on my overall indie ranking scale. These were books that I really enjoyed, maybe have a few things that could be improved, but they're still worth advocating for and reading and adding to your own personal TBR. These are ones that I would go to bat for and explain why they are great stories. Next up on the list is the Ruby Award. This is any book that ends up with a score of 9 plus out of 10 on their overall indie ranking scale. All of these books are elite must readad books in my opinion if it suits your genre preferences. If you don't like grim dark, and I recommend a 10 out of 10 grim dark, you're still not going to like it. Even if I feel like it's a 10 out of 10. So, you still have to be conscious of what your preferences are for your subg genres. But I would still say if you like certain subg genres that I'm recommending that are nine out of 10 or above, these are the ones that you have to put on your TBR. And finally, we will have one diamond winner. This is going to be my personal favorite discovery of the year. Now, I will have a caveat to this because this doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to be the highest overall score that ends up winning the diamond award. It might just be something that resonated with me personally and became my personal favorite. Even if there were issues with world building or characters or infrastructure, but I just really connected with it, that could win the diamond award. So, I just want to make that very clear. It has less to do with the overall rankings and more just with what impacted me the most and what I really resonated with and enjoyed. So, I reserve the right for a little bit of discretion on this one, but chances are it will still have a pretty high overall score. So, without further ado, who are the winners of the 2025 Indie Fantasy Club Hidden Gem Awards? Let's find out. Let's start with our Emerald winners. Kicking things off, we have Isaac Unknown by James McFaten. And I'm going to leave links to my full reviews of all these books in the video description below if you want to go check those out. Isaac Unknown was a great urban fantasy book. It reminded me of like a supernatural style of a tone and feeling of the book. It feels like Dean Winchester solo on all these miniature adventures against these classic monsters. And I typically don't like urban fantasy. So to see an urban fantasy that hit this criteria and actually win an Emerald Award is really exciting to see. So congratulations to James. Great job. Really fun read and I'm looking forward to seeing what else he has in store for us. Next up, we have Demonology and the Art of Pickling Demons by Matt Moore. I really wasn't sure what to think about this book when it was first sent to me because it has such an interesting title. Normally, I don't really vibe with books that lean into heavy humor, so I thought maybe that's what it would be. But really, it does have humor in it, but it's about this kid who discovers this ability to pickle demons to keep them from possessing people. And that leads to a whole bunch of adventures and a whole bunch of issues and challenges. And it is a standalone book, which I think is nice. I personally would have liked to see more from this world or maybe seen this extended. I felt like sometime some things were a little rushed, but I still really really had a good time with this book. So, if you haven't had a chance to check it out, if you want to more coming of age type story that's a little more light-hearted, I'd give this one a read. And the last Emerald Winner that we have is Petition by Delila Juan. This book was one of my favorites of the year because it's one that I really thought about a lot after I was done reading it. Like I kept coming back specifically to the magic system of this world. It was absolutely incredible, super well thought out, very good costs and consequences. And it's based around emotion and empathy and and how emotion impacts different abilities in this world, which I thought was really cool. had kind of a Hunger Games style to it where kids are competing to get job offers so that they can rise out of poverty. So, it's just a very character-driven narrative with a fantastic magic system. And she's also won other awards. She's won the Indie Inc. Award and she was a semi-finalist for the SPFO award. So, this one is a high high quality book. And the only reason I didn't rank this higher is because of the scale. It's happens on a smaller scale, but I'm really looking forward to reading Supplicant, which expands the the universe just a little bit more. So, I'm looking forward to seeing kind of where this world takes us. It's one of my more anticipated series that I'm planning to read for 2026. All right, let's get into the Ruby winners. The first winner we have is Mercy, Tears of the Fallen by Chance Dylan. This one I think is very lucky to be here because I don't know if I normally would have been prepared for this level of complexity and depth in a story. It really felt malazesque which normally I try to avoid because it's very intimidating to try and tackle a book like that. But I had read so much like hold your hand simple fantasy leading up to that. thought that getting a challenge that I could really sink my teeth into was super refreshing. So, I loved reading this story and just kind of getting lost in this very complicated world, not trying to necessarily understand every little thing that's going on because there is a ton. There's a ton of world building, a ton of history. You've got a history of fighting against zombies and this plague. You've got a bunch of different factions of magic users and a bunch of political scheming. So, there is a lot of complexity to this book and I loved every minute of it. So, I'm really looking forward to see where the rest of the series goes. I think he did a fantastic job. And the other Ruby winner that we have is Design of Darkness by RD Pers. This one surprised me as well because it's a very slow burn character-driven fantasy. So, there's not a ton of action in this book, but it did feel like a pretty good setup for the rest of the series. So, I'm really looking forward to see how all of the things that happened in book one is going to escalate things in book two as we get more into wars and intercontinental conflicts. And it mostly follows these characters who are fleeing a land of tyranny, trying to find and beg for help from these other distant nations to come to their aid and help free them from the tyrant who is just destroying their people. And so, yeah, it's just very deep. It feels very real. It feels feels lived in. So, if you like character-driven fantasy with multiple POVs that has an epic feel to it, you have to give Design of Darkness a read. and Tides that Rain just came out and the third book I think will come out next year. I'm not sure, but I'm pretty sure he has all book four books written and he's just mapping them out. So, it's an author that you can trust will finish the series, which is important. And finally, the winner of the Diamond Award is Rotten Gods by Jeremy Adams. This one did happen to have the highest overall indie ranking score of the year, but I just loved this book. It was so fun to read. It had that Brandon Sanderson pros with just these horrific Eldrich monsters thrown into it. It was just so fun to see these assassins trying to kill these ancient rotten gods that they have to kill them in a dreamscape environment and the physical realm to wipe them off the earth so that they don't spread their influence and basically become conquerors and tyrants of the natural world. This to me is the must-read of the year. If you aren't going to read anything else from the books that I recommend, I think that you have to give Rotten Gods a go. If you like that type of thing, if you like Brandon Sanderson style, if you like epic fantasy, if you like a coming of age style story, it just I think encapsulated everything that I personally look for in a fantasy. That doesn't mean that there weren't things that I had issues with as I was reading it, but I was able to overlook it because I loved the concept of this world and the execution of the story. So, there you have it. Those are the winners of the hidden gem award for 2025. I am so grateful to be able to discover hidden gems. I yearn for the minds. And I guess this is my way of actually fulfilling that calling. So, to all the authors out there who submitted a book to me in 2025, thank you so much. And if I haven't gotten to your book yet, I promise I'm working my way through the TBR. I will get to your book eventually. It's one of my favorite things to do is discover new indie fantasy books to recommend to my audience. So, I will be diligent in reading this year. I'm going to try and get even more. I read 40 in 2025. I'm going to try and shoot maybe for 50 in 2026, but I know that's ambitious. I have other things going on, but I'm going to try. I think uh again it's just kind of a fun hobby and I just feel incredibly lucky to be in this position where I get just to discover and enjoy all of these great stories. But that's going to do it for today's video. So I will see you next time. Thanks so much for watching and don't forget to add some of these books to your TBR for 2026. [music]
