[1] Top 36 WRs for 2025 Fantasy Football – Tier Breaks You Need to Know — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AugEdktiioo

What's going on guys? It's Nick here back with another video today going over my full top 36 wide receiver rankings broken down into tiers. If you find this helpful at all, please leave a like, subscribe to the channel if you are new. Really helps me out. Only takes a second to do. All right, probably going to be the longest video in the history of the channel. So, we'll start things right off. Tier one, Jamar Chase, Justin Jefferson, CD Lamb in that order. Uh there are very few arguments against Chase as the 101. And in my opinion, they're pretty weak. He's inarguably a top three wide receiver talent. He's got a quarterback that we know can support multiple top five fantasy wide receivers. We know the Bengals defense is trash. He's coming off the fourth highest scoring season ever for a wide receiver. Again, very little you can say about Jamar Chase to get someone scared of him. Um, I think the big reasons that you would take him over Justin Jefferson are one, we know that Burrow is an elite quarterback. And while McCarthy, I think, is going to excel in the Viking system, we don't know that he's going to crush it in the same way that we do know that Burrow will. Second, the Vikings do have one of the best defenses in the NFL. And so, there are going to be a lot of games this season where their offense gets them up early. Maybe it doesn't come from a Justin Jefferson touchdown. they can lean on the running backs and maybe they just lean on the running backs, lean on the defense. Don't really have to utilize the passing game that much in the second half. I think Jefferson verse Lamb is a lot closer to me. But Eileen Jefferson, two reasons. First, he's a better wide receiver. I think that gets lost sometimes in fantasy. But at the end of the day, Jeff Justin Jefferson is probably the best. You could argue him versus Chase, but Jefferson's probably the best like actual NFL wide receiver in the league, and that should matter when we're making these decisions. But I think the bigger reason um is just my trust in each of the offenses. I just trust Kevin Oonnell more than I trust Brian Shottenheimimer and Clayton Adams. Like, I just trust Kevin O'Connell to a higher degree. Uh, everyone has pointed to, you know, the offense of Dallas playing fast, leaning pass heavy, and I agree with that. I think that's going to happen. But Shanheimimer has been a play caller 12 times, 12 years in the league, in the NFL. And he only has four offenses that ended up in the top 10 in points per game. Only three times in 12 years has his offenses finished top 16 in yards per game. give me the better wide receiver with much better coaching and you know the chance that his wide receiver too gets suspended. We know it's I don't want to say likely, but relatively likely that uh Jordan Addison's going to miss like two or three games this season with suspension. That's just a little addin bonus that you've got a little chunk of the season where Jefferson is going to be the top projected wide receiver in fantasy. So, at the end of the day, all three are amazing. I have no hesitations drafting any of them. They should all go as the top six picks in all one quarterback formats. Uh but I do think the rankings are pretty clearly Chase, Jefferson, Lamb. We'll go over some players where maybe I could see the rankings shifting around a little bit over summer. I highly doubt unless there's an injury that I move off that ranking. Chase, Jefferson, Lamb. Next up, tier two. Uh my rankings are Malik Neighbors, Duka Nakua, Aman Ross Brown, Nico Collins, and Brian Thomas Jr. in that order. Leak Neighbors at 21 years old and only playing 15 games last season, not the full 17, he set the single season receptions record for rookie. Uh he was catching passes from Daniel Jones, Drew Lockach, Tommy Devito, Tim Bole. Unbelievable. An unbelievable season from Malak Neighbors last year. led all wide receivers in the NFL, not just rookies, in first read percentage, touchdown market share, and obviously targets per game when you're getting that many targets. Uh he somehow commanded only six fewer targets than Jamar Chase despite running 175 fewer routes this season. Whether it's going to be Russ or Dart, some combination, it's probably going to be Russell Wilson to start the season, Jackson Dart to end the season, and then where that, you know, kind of comes into play, we'll just estimate mid-season. But it really just depends on how Russ starts off. But regardless of what the split is, he is going to see better quarterback play this year. And since they didn't add any wide receivers, his target competition is going to remain the same. like he could command 200 plus targets this season and I think next year he's going to like just undeniably be in tier one. He's going to be a player that we're talking about in that conversation conversation of uh Chase Jefferson Lamb. Unreal. He's an unreal talent. It's an amazing situation. The only thing keeping him out of tier one right now is the offense, right? Like the Giants stink. Um so that hurts, right? We're looking at three better offenses in tier one with great situations as well. And then this slight concern around this lingering toe injury, I'm not worried about it. Um, but if you were to like miss time in camp, if they were to say, you know, he's like questionable to start the season, again, I don't think that is going to happen. But if that did, obviously, we'd kind of adjust here. Uh, but this is an injury he played through last season. Like he had it last year. It didn't really cause him uh to like miss significant time. So, I'm not too worried about it. But again, keep an eye out on that one in camp. If he's good to go, I'm not changing anything. Only wide receiver I could see challenging Malik Neighbors. And again, if the toe injury becomes a thing, I would move Puka Nakua up to number three or up to number four. Right now, he is number five. Um, again, if you wanted to rank him at four ahead of Malik Neighbors, I would be okay with that. Uh, Puka battled through injuries last season, but when healthy, you could argue that he was better than Malik Neighbors, which again, scary. you know how many targets Malak Neighbors was commanding, but Puka Nua commanded a jaw-dropping 38% target share when he was on the field. 6% higher than Malik Neighbors in second place. He had a 17% first down per run percentage. That was also first, two percentage points ahead of second place, AJ Brown. Like these are two highly predictive stats. Uh he also has the more predictable quarterback play. He gets uh significantly more dome games, good weather games than Malik Neighbors has. My only worry with Puka is the touchdowns. Uh they love using Kairen at the goal line. And even with Cup looking cooked at times last season and missing some time on top of that, Puke only had six end zone targets, three touchdowns overall. That's a season after six or a season after 10 endzone targets, six touchdowns overall. My worry is that they don't view him as a touchdown scorer. And then when they go out and they add Devont Adams, who's like the ultimate touchdown scorer, um that lack of touchdown potential could again could limit him from hitting that top tier. Would I be shocked if Puku goes out there, he leads the league in targets per route run, he has 10 to 12 touchdowns and he finishes as the wide receiver three? No. I wouldn't be surprised at all. If you're not concerned at all about these touchdowns, uh, and you think he's going to go out there and be an absolute stud, again, I am okay putting him ahead of Malik Neighbors because he's that good, I have some concerns there. And then when you think about the Neighbors tow injury, it's not like Puka has had like a clean bill of health in his career. So, if you're concerned about Neighbors, you should probably be concerned about Puka to the same degree. So, I don't think you can use that as a differentiator. Again, I like my rankings as Neighbors than Puka, but I think it's extraordinarily close between those two, but they should be in tier 2. After those two, I do think it's pretty clear after them uh the rest of these guys. We get into Aman Ross St. Brown, but like it's kind of funny because so people kind of ask where you want to draft this season, right? Everyone always wants to know because it happens when a lot of leagues where like you pick out of a hat, it's random, it's from last year, whatever. You get to pick where you draft. Most of the time, I would say, I don't know, 75 80% of years, you want to be picking the top half. Like, it's just historically where we've seen great production, uh, the best players go there. You see a drop off into round two, and it's just like, it's just not as good, right? The late first round picks this season doesn't matter. Truly, I think you can pick out of a hat. Whatever pick you get, I think you should be happy with that selection. I think it's unbelievably fair every single pick. And that's because there are so many great wide receivers. I mentioned there's a great tier one. I think that these two wide receivers, uh, Neighbors and Puka should clearly be in the top of tier 2. But that is not to say that the rest of tier 2 isn't also amazing. Aman Brown has three straight seasons of at least 106 receptions. He has over 115 receptions, over,50 yards, and over or at least 10 touchdowns. So 10 plus touchdowns in back-to-back years. That is a stat line that has only been reached by 16 wide receivers in the history of the NFL one time. And he joins only Devonte Adams and Antonio Brown as the wide receivers to do it in back-to-back years. He has been absolutely incredible. He's been consistent. And to be able to get that at the end of round one gives you a lot of value because certainly Aman Ross Brown could be the number one wide receiver in fantasy this season. I know the Lions are going to take a step back this season. I think that's pretty much a guarantee. Um but I think people kind of take that too far and almost in their minds say like, "Oh, they're not going to be that good." No, they're just not going to be like by far the best offense in the NFL. They're still going to be incredible. I wouldn't be shocked if they were still the number one offense in the NFL. And if anything, yes, touchdown upside gets capped when we're not expecting them to score like what, like 33 points per game like last season. But could they score 30? Yes. And even if they score fewer touchdowns, even if they win fewer games, it probably just means they're going to be more competitive in the second half. That's going to lead to more shootout potential. But it's also just going to lead to because shoot up potential and the fact that like if you just get up, you know, to 28, you get to 30 points. This other team's sitting there like goodness, we're not even doing that bad, but we're at like 12 or 15. It's a weird stat line I just said, but 10 to 14 points. Like it becomes a situation where the Lions can slow down, they can go run heavy, and you kind of limit that shoot up potential. But if the Lions are just like a little bit worse on offense, not scoring quite as much, games can just be closer for longer, and that can contribute to a few more shootouts. and also just p more pass heavy game scripts in the second half. So I think Ammon St. Brown is an incredibly safe first round pick. He is again part of the reason why having a mid or late first round pick this season is so appealing to a lot of people because a profile like this should cost you a top five pick every single time. It should obviously cost you that uh when a player has the production and the consistency and the upside that Amman St. Brown has shown. But there are eight wide receivers all deserving of first round grades this season and that means you're going to get some of them in the late first round. So Amanra unbelievable pick this season. After him I have Nico Collins. Um I see a lot of people that are like really high on Nico. Like some people who are like he should be you know I've seen him graded out as number three wide receiver. Pump the brakes a little bit on putting him that high. uh he was a monster last season when healthy and if the Texans can get back to their like 2023 production then he has a great ceiling. He is another wide receiver that could be the number one overall wide receiver in fantasy. I will note though uh Neighbors Puka, they do have stronger underlying metrics uh just in terms of earning targets. Um it would also be awesome if the Texans offensive line was fixed. Uh but I'm currently still projecting them to be worse in the league. I'm not some like offensive line expert, but I read around for people who are good at this, and it does seem like they're not going to be good. Um, at minimum, they're probably going to be bottom five. Um, and if that is an issue for Shroud, because that's what the narrative was last season. It was like he just he can't function with the offensive line just like falling apart around him. And if that can get back to being good, then we're going to have more upside in this offense. But if it's not, then we could see repeat of last season, and that is going to limit Nico Collins ceiling. Uh, also just slightly concerning. He's missed three, seven, two, and five games in his four-year career. So, again, not a massive deal. It's not like he's tearing his ACL every single season. Um, but he's not really winning on that front either. It's not like you could say he's less likely to get injured than those guys. So, I just think Neighbors Puka have a higher ceiling, especially from just earning targets. Like, these are two players who could legitimately see 200 targets. I just don't see that being the case for Nico Collins this season. And then I just think Aman Ros is like a safer bet. So I like where I have Nico. I doubt that I end up moving him higher this season. Then we have Brian Thomas Jr. to kind of round out this tier. And I don't think there's a super strong case that he should be moved up higher either. I think this is a correct ranking for him. He was awesome to close his rookie season and I do think he's going to be an elite fantasy producer this season, but everyone we have ranked ahead of him right now like has been stronger at earning targets. And I do think that Travis Hunter is just a freak athlete that is going to have a very large role on this offense. We'll talk about him later in the video, of course, so I'll save my my take on Travis Hunter for then. Um, and again, I still think that Brian Thomas Jr. is going to be the wide receiver one on this team. I don't think it's very likely that Travis Hunter steps in and is the one, but there's at least some risk that he was going off late last season because he was the only healthy weapon they had. So, they had to feature the entire passing game, really the entire offense around him. Um, maybe this season they can figure out the ground game. Uh maybe Travis Hunter is as good as I think he is and he can actually steal some production from Brian Thomas Jr. So I just don't think I can move him higher, but I also think he deserves completely to be in tier two, not into tier three. So I would expect that where he is right now is exactly where he will finish later on. He is the exact mold of wide receiver we love in fantasy. Like sure, he's going to have sometimes a slightly lower floor, but we want these guys that operate deep downfield that has have explosive playmaking ability because they're the players that can turn, you know, eight targets into seven receptions for 150 yards and two touchdowns and be the reason that you win. We want those guys on our team. And if he can go off with M. Jones at quarterback, then truly who knows what the ceiling is with Trevor Lawrence back. I think this could be a real bounceback season for Trevor Lawrence as well. Uh so again, don't think I can move him higher, but he deserves to be here. And it's another reason why late first round if you could pair him like imagine a wide receiver wide receiver start where you've got like Aman Raw and him or Nico and him or I don't know, maybe you got lucky, you got Puka and him, like my goodness, the upside you can have is crazy. After Brian Thomas Jr., We have tier three uh that consists of Drake London, AJ Brown, Lad McConi, Rashi Rice, and Tyreek Hill. Uh Drake London start things off. He was third in targets per route run last season, third in first read percentage, eighth in first downs per route run. Again, very highly predictive metrics. And last season, he was pretty production, pretty productive how having to catch passes from Kurt Cousins. Uh he looked absolutely dreadful down the stretch. I think again it's very telling that like they were in the playoff hunt. There were only a few games left. The Falcons could make the playoffs if they won some games and they still benched Kurt Cousins. That's how bad he was playing. I forget the stat off the top of my head. It's in a previous video, but it was something crazy like the last couple of games he had like one zero or one touchdown and like nine interceptions. Like he was horrible down the stretch. Lost his job. And I think it's also telling the market's been loud and clear. No one wants Kurt Cousins right now. So, I am viewing Michael Pennix Jr. as an upgrade. There's a lot of people who are very excited about him. They seem to be excited again. It's a time of year where everyone's excited about everyone, but there are a lot of film guys who really like Michael Penn Jr., so I think it's going to be an upgrade. Um, can't move London really into tier 2 because the underlying metrics have always been strong with him and the situation's always been pretty positive. It's just about actually producing consistent high-end fantasy numbers for him. I think this is the year he finally does it. But I also wouldn't be shocked if he kind of continues to be really good, but just can't get into that top tier. Uh just given how we've seen him play and then just the uncertainty around Penn. Like obviously I I think it's going to be an upgrade, but I don't know. And we could still see Penn out there and not be as good as we think. and so pump the brakes down into tier three, but I I think leading tier three makes sense for Drake London. After London, we have AJ Brown. Last year, Brown ranked second in yards per route run, second in first rate percentage, second in first downs per route run. Uh, and had he stayed healthy, so the two years going into last year, he had over 1,450 receiving yards. had he not, you know, missed some games with a hamstring injury, been rested in week 18, he probably would have made it three in a row. That is something that not very many wide receivers have ever done. I just think, you know, the biggest reason for positive, right, the biggest reason to why AJ Brown could like jump into, you know, the top five in fantasy production this season is the offense. And you're like, well, they were awesome last season. Yeah, I mean the 17 games he played, they went 16-1, but that meant that in so many second halves they were running the ball, especially on this offense, having Saquon, having Jaylen Herds, they just ran the ball every single play. He was second in the entirety of the NFL in first half receiving yards per game, but was 30th in second half receiving yards per game, 90 first in second half receptions per game. Because again, they were winning every second half and you're like, my goodness, are they going to throw the ball more than four times in the second half this week? He is still inarguably one of the best wide receivers in the NFL. You could argue he's a top five wide receiver. And if they just lose more games or are a little more competitive in the second half in a few more games, we know what the ceiling is. Again, second in first half receiving yards per game. If they're competitive in the second half, this is a guy who could be number one in the NFL in receiving yards per game. Um, I do have him behind London though because like I still think Eagle is going to be good. Like they're probably still going to win most of their games. They're probably still going to lean extremely runheavy in the second half of games and in the red zone. We know when they get in close, they're going to run it with Saquon and then finish it off with Jaylen Herz and that's obviously going to impact the ceiling for AJ Brown when he's not getting these like five yard slant passes that he can absolutely do. But if they're just going to run the ball every time they get close, it does limit the total ceiling for his touchdowns. And of course, when you're drafting a player this early, that's going to hurt. Um that honestly, I would say that's probably the biggest differentiator. that and maybe defense like London is going to be used more in the red zone and London's defense is trash. I mean, the Falcons have a trash defense, their division is trash defenses. You hear me say that a lot. We want wide receivers in this division. Um, those two factors compared to Brown who'll be used less in the red zone. His team is better. His defense is better. So, they're just like not going to have to push it as much. We'll just seeing we're probably going to see more games from Drake London where we're seeing a spike up and they're just running more and more and more plays and throwing the ball more. I think that's more beneficial than the efficiency for AJ Brown. At number 11, we have Lad Manki. He led all rookies last season in yards per route run, missed tackles, forced per route run um or per perception, uh first downs per route run. He's awesome. Like we we always like he was never a um prospect profile guy. Like if you run some sort of like production profile for rookies um use machine learning for that and look at their like underlying stats. He was never someone that was going to like pop big time because he had a lot of competition in college and he missed time with injuries. And so he never really like truly broke out, but when you looked at like per play numbers, like his efficiency metrics there, he was awesome. And it was like if he can get in the right landing spot and he can stay healthy, he can be, you know, the next Keenan Allen for the Chargers. And he kind of proved last season that, yeah, that's probably going to happen. Uh, we know that Herbert has a history of just peppering wide receivers with targets. We know Herbert is a great um quarterback. We know this offensive system is going to be good. Like they're just not going to be a team that ends up like completely busting and being terrible unless everyone starts to get injured. Um, some people have reached out being like, I really want to put him, you know, into tier two. I want to be taking him in this range of like I mean people have said like Nico Collins, Brian Thomas Jr. I want to throw some caution out there on that front. Um, projections wise, it's not even close. Like, he should not be in tier two. Um, they did add some target competition in Trey Harris, who I think underlying metrics on him are very strong as well. Like, he could be exceptional. Um, maybe takes a little bit to kind of get going, but that could be target competition the second half of the year. That's just stronger than it was or harder, I guess, than it was last season. Uh, they're also probably going to be run heavy. Like, this is a team that wants to be run heavy. They couldn't really do it last season. and they started off hot, but like they they couldn't really run the ball and then especially in that playoff game, you know, you look at the stat line for Lad McConi and you're like, let's go. They lost that game. They got crushed. And so it's like this is a team when you look at the coaching staff. They want to run the football. They want a great offensive line. They want consistent running backs they can throw in there and give 25 touches per game. That's why they went out and they got Naji while also getting a Martin Hampton. They want two guys who they trust. Now, we'll see uh what Naji's status is after the 4th of July, but I can promise you no matter what his status is, Marvin Hampton's a stud. He can do everything they need him to do. Um he can operate the entire ground game on his own. And it just worries me a little bit that the offensive philosophy for this team is going to be run centric. And so maybe the total potential there isn't enough to kind of pass London AJ Brown because he's not as good. He's great at wide receiver, but he's not as good as AJ Brown. So, he's not going to be as efficient on a per play basis there. If the volume's a lot lower than Drake London, I just think there's a reason why we should keep him back here and definitely not throw him into tier 2. So, I like where I have him. Middle of tier three. After that, we have Rashi Rice. Over his last 13 games, he's 105 receptions, 1,68 yards, and eight touchdowns on a per game or point per game basis. and fantasy that would have finished ahead of leak neighbors, ahead of Nico Collins last season, just a little bit behind Aman Rosen Brown and Puka Nikua. Pretty clear. Uh when you started last season, he was going to be leader like he was going to be someone that dominated in fantasy. He was someone that they were centering their entire offense around. Uh Travis Kelce was going to play a complimentary role, but then you have the injury to Hollywood. you have the injury to Rashi Rice and they're like, "Okay, we got to bring Kelsey back from, you know, his like I don't want to call it retirement because like obviously he's playing um but he was going to have that secondary role. He was going to be a complimentary piece that was hopefully just going to stay healthy for the playoffs and kind of utilize him then as well. But when everyone got hurt, they had to use Kelsey. And that injury is really the only reason Kelsey was used a lot more last season. This year, all signs point to Rashid Rice again being thrust into that centerpiece of the offense. Um there is currently no concern over the knee injury. Uh he's been 100% well before camp's even open. Like he is any injury suffers now is going to be a completely new injury. It's not going to be related to the knee. Our only concern here is the possible suspension. And that is what keeps him back from the top of this tier. Truly like I would put him at the very top of this tier uh if we had 0% chance that he was going to be suspended because right now we just don't know. We don't think he's going to be. It looks unlikely he'll be suspended, but we don't know. And as we'll talk about with Jordan Addison last year or last year later in this video, um it matters a lot more in the early rounds. Like someone that you're drafting potentially tail end of round two. Yeah, it matters if they're going to miss a couple games being suspended. Someone you're drafting as like the wide receiver 35. You're like, well, okay, that's a flex spot. I can put someone else in there. I'm going to lose like.3 points in my projection. It's not going to matter that much. So suspension risk risk is just heavier when you go early on and so that's what keeps him pushed a little back. But if it did come out that he's not going to be suspended this year, I probably would move him up to the top of this tier. Last player in tier three is Tyreek Hill. Uh he was in tier four before the Johnny trade, but unless Keenan Allen signs there, unless they trade for a wide receiver, I'm moving him into tier three. Uh Darren Waller will be used, but there's no way he commands 111 targets. 111 targets that John Smith had last season. I think the offense goes back to what we saw in 2023 when they pushed the ball downfield more to their wide receivers instead of this just dink and dump offense we saw last season. My one hesitation is again like with the Texans, it's the offensive line. I'm still projecting them to be in the bottom tier four offensive lines. Um, and you know, if they ran that offense last season because the offensive line can't block and because they're scared of Tua getting hit, well, then maybe it would continue this season and that would be bad for Tyreek Hill. At the end of the day though, I don't think he's cooked. Um, I think that Tyreek Hill has like one or two years of elite production left. Um, and let's be honest, like I think McDaniel is a great play caller. I think he realizes that last season was a big step back. Um, I think the entire coaching staff has to realize that they're still on the hot seat. If they do what they did last season again and it doesn't work again and you see Tyreek Hill gone, this coaching staff can get fired. Now, maybe not everyone, but they can look to this and be like, you've had great playmakers. What are you doing? Now, I would argue that it's also on the front office. What are you doing? If the biggest risk to this offense is Tua and you're going out there and you've got Zack Wilson as the backup quarterback, I mean, that is a failure from ownership, right? Like there are other quarterbacks you can code to. So, unless their plan is he gets hurt and we trade for someone, but that doesn't work. You want someone in the system that you actually trust to midame go out there and continue that production. So, I think it's a failure on management's part. But regardless, um I think Tyreek Hill has one or two years of great production left. I think they're going to utilize the wide receivers more deep downfield. Um, I do think they're going to feature Tyreek Hill and Jaylen Wadd on this team. I do believe that Tyreek Hill deserves to be in this tier, but I wouldn't fault anyone if you just don't agree. If you're like, it's too much of a risk having Tua. Um, the production goes way down. I think that he's either cooked or just not mentally there right now. Totally fine. Put them in tier four. Don't draft him. This is early enough where you should love every player. Every single player you draft, you should be in love with. You should be like, I don't see a path. I personally be like, I just I just don't see them failing at this ADP. That's how you should feel for your first like four picks in the draft. So, you know, if this isn't going to end up being like kind of the beginning of round three, you probably want to feel good about it. But again, I do I'm very comfortable uh drafting him. I know what the ceiling is. He can be a top three wide receiver this season. And I think that production goes back to what we've seen in the past because again, he was hurt all of last season. Tier four, uh T. Higgins, Murray Harrison Jr., Garrett Wilson, Jackson Smith, and Jigba. Uh, this is the first grouping that I'd be fine with, but I wouldn't be pumped to see them as my wide receiver one. Everyone we've talked about before, if they end up as my wide receiver one, I'm totally fine with it. And I know that if this tier is your one, and that means you either went running back, running back, you went running back, tight end, and so you're very strong at other positions. I get that. I still would very much prefer this range as a wide receiver, too. Um, with that being said, I think the combination of talent, age, opportunity keep these players ahead of the six players that we'll go over in tier five. So, we'll start off with T. Higgins. T was fourth in points per game last season. Wide receiver four overall. Uh, made his made his third top 20 wide receiver season in his five-year career. Uh the issue people have with T is not what he does when he's healthy. It's the fact that he can't stay healthy uh just in terms of actual fantasy finishes. So not points per game. He's been the wide receiver 30, 22, 17, 49, and 17. So going as the wide receiver 12 in drafts right now, it's a bet on not only him being productive, which he's going to be on a perfect late game basis, but you're betting on that happening and you're also betting on him staying healthy, which he's yet to do in his career. Honestly, to me, drafting him really just comes down to like how well you know your league. Um, you know, how um really what your scoring format is as well. I'd 100% draft him in baseball. So when I say scoring format, I mean like in a basketball league, you're drafting a ton of teams. And so you can assume the risk of T. Higgins. You can assume and say, okay, you know, maybe he only stays fully healthy all 17 games like 20% of the time. But in that 20%, he's going to shatter this ADP. He's going to be very productive. This offense is going to be great. I want to capitalize on that on maybe 20% of my teams, which would still be way ahead of the field. On average in a 12 team league, you have 8% exposure, like 8.33. So, you can make that bet. In baseball, in a reddraft league, you can't do that as much. You're probably only going to draft what, one to three reraft teams. And so, you're going to have very heavy exposure to someone who needs to stay healthy to pay off the ADP. Um, so again, a little bit more risk in reddraft. I also think though if you think that you're better than the people you're playing against, you think that you're going to be able to find wide receiver value later on in the draft, mid-range, late to where you're like, Nick, if he's my wide receiver, too, I think I'm going to get like five or six wide receivers that I feel comfortable starting. Well, at that point, I mean, you're not taking his zero in the games he misses. So, if I told you he's going to miss four games, you don't get a zero those four games. You just start one of your other wide receivers. And so if you think that you're better at drafting and you can take one of those wide receivers and put them into the starting lineup in weeks that T. Higgins misses, well now all of a sudden maybe the production is worth it, right? Because you're going to, you know, get a return on that investment in the weeks he plays and the weeks he doesn't play. If you draft really good players anyways, you can play them anyways and then then it's still fine. So I think it matters there. I think it matters how deep your bench is, right? Deeper bench leagues, it's a little bit more viable to take more shots, hit on players uh in shorter benches. is you only like four or five bench spots. Well, now maybe you don't have as many backups that are good. It hurts you a little bit more. More competitive leagues, deeper leagues, it just hurts you a little bit more if he misses time. So, again, it really just comes down to personal preference with him. Uh, still though, I stand behind him leading this tier because I know he's an elite wide receiver. I know he's capable. He just did it. He was a wide receiver four points per game. Um, I know Burrow is an unbelievable quarterback. I know their defense is terrible. So, when he's out there, I'm going to be extremely confident in starting him. He'll probably be a wide receiver one in the weeks that he's out there. And I think I'm strong enough in drafting to where I can get production from other guys later in the draft to where I'm comfortable taking the risk. But if you're not, it goes back to the same thing with Tyreek Hill. Don't draft a player you're not comfortable drafting this early. After T. Higgins, we have Marvin Harrison Jr. He was 42nd in half PPR points per game last season, which was an obvious disappointment. The thing is, he had a better season than people give him credit for. Everyone loves to say that it's like, "Oh, he's only being drafted this high because of who his dad is, right? If his dad was someone else, he'd be drafted later." In reality, he had a better rookie season than his dad had, uh, despite being two years younger. He also had fantastic route success rate. As for Matt Harmon over at Reception Perception, I think he's the best in the industry at charting wide receivers, giving us, you know, under the hood look at just how good they were running routes, irrespective of who was throwing them the football, how productive they were in that area. He still won an unbelievably high rate versus man press and zone. His route success rate was great. Like he was good as a rookie wide receiver. The connection just wasn't amazing between him and Kyler, but I think that can grow. Um our expectations were also unbelievably high. Like he was being drafted as what? Like a top 12 wide receiver as a rookie. Someone had the stat where it was like by far the highest drafted rookie wide receiver in like fantasy history. So it's like we place these expectations. It's kind of our fault that he fell super short of them. Again, he was 42nd, so let's not pretend like he had a good rookie season, but from an underlying metric standpoint, he was a good wide receiver. The connection just needs to build a little bit. Also, this season, no team plays indoors more. And the Cardinals, they're at most going to have like one bad weather game. Uh they play the NFC South. That's the worst division football from a defense perspective. I'm expecting a bump from Marv. Um, I think he can be a true league winner, especially you look at the playoff schedule, unbelievably easy playoff schedule as well. Great, uh, championship week and semi-final week matchup there. Um, he's going to be one of my three most roster wide receivers this season. Um, I think we're going to be talking about him in tier one or tier two next year. After Marf, we have Garrett Wilson, the $130 million man. Uh, just signed a four-year $130 million contract. $90 million fully guaranteed. That's a lot of guaranteed money for Garrett Wilson. Um, right when that happened, I had a lot of people reach out and ask, you know, what impact this has on the rankings, but I don't see why that would matter at all. Like, it would matter if the case against Garrett Wilson was that like the team doesn't like him. Uh, maybe we don't think he's linked wide receiver. And you could be like, well, the team clearly likes him and he's obviously good because, you know, no one gives $90 million to a bad wide receiver. Um, if there was like risk in them just like not wanting to play him or something like that. like if those were the risks, right? But the concern has never been that. We've known he's a great wide receiver. We know the team loves him. The concern is always volume. The Jets are going to be one of the most runheavy teams in the entire NFL. And on top of that, many dropbacks, which will count as like pass plays, they're going to turn into running plays because Justin Fields is just going to run the ball on a high percentage of dropbacks. Plus, he dumps off a lot to running backs. So, you've got a lot of plays that are either going to be a designed run are going to be designed pass that turn into a run or designed pass that turn into a dump off and those are not plays that Garrett Wilson is going to get a target. So, it's a problem when you consider like he needs the targets, right? Like he is the second most targeted wide receiver in NFL history through three seasons and you're like, "Wow, he's been amazing in fantasy, right?" No, he's been the wide receiver 31, 40, and 23 in points. Again, being the second most targeted wide receiver ever. I think he's been like sixth, fourth, and fourth in targets among wide receivers in his three years. So, he'll need to be inarguably he needs to be top three if he wants to pay off this current ADP, which is a lot to ask again from an unbelievably runheavy offense with a mobile quarterback that also dumps off the running backs at a high rate. So, the worry is if the targets drop off, um, he needs to be way more efficient. And I don't think that Justin Fields, anyone thinks he's like some super efficient pocket passer. Um, I will say this though, it it opens correlation. So, if you're drafting an underdog and you want to draft Garrett Wilson, well, Justin Fields is heavily correlated to uh Garrett Wilson. And so, if you make that bet, you do have a heav he heavily correlated bet later on, and I would make it in reddraft as well. So, I know we always talk about like not necessarily seeking out stacks in reddraft leagues, but 100% of the time, if I draft Garrett Wilson, I will also be drafting Justin Fields. Only way that Garrett Wilson pays off this ADP where he is right now is if Justin Fields has a really good season passing and we know he's going to have a good season rushing. So there you have it. And if Justin Fields ends up getting hurt missing time, there's no way Garrett Wilson's paying off his ADP. So if you make the bet and you draft Garrett Wilson, you have to draft Fields. And that can be a positive because you're taking two picks on your team and you're saying, can we be right on the first one? And if I am, both of them work out. And that is a positive. So, it is a positive direction of G Wilson. Uh, again, I haven't been able to justify him for most of the summer, but I'll say this, the last like week or so, I don't know if some major podcasters, major platforms are talking about him negatively. I don't know. I don't listen to everyone, but I've seen him slip. So, earlier in the summer, it was very consistently. He's going in the early third round. You're not getting him later than that. He's been dropping into the mid third. I've seen him go into the late third. Like, he's been falling. and he's gotten to a range where where I have him ranked right now, I was never ever ever getting him. Now, he's consistently towards the top or the top player and I've actually been drafting him more. So, I am going to have Garrett Wilson this season. Uh I mentioned in a video like last week, I wouldn't be surprised if he got to 5%. Again, 8% would be average. I'll be below the field, but he's been falling in drafts. So, if you listen to me talk negatively about Garrett Wilson in a different video, ADPs change all the time. My take has not changed. My ranking has not changed, but ADPs have approached where I have him. And once that happens, I'm going to start drafting him more. And again, that's been happening. Finally, to round out this tier, we have JSN, Jackson Smith, and Jigba. He's entering year three at only 23 and a half years old as the clear alpha on the Seahawks. My issue with JSN is just quarterback play. I truly just don't believe that Sam Darnold is a good quarterback. I just think that the Vikings have, you know, such a good offensive system that any quarterback they had last season was going to produce. Any quarterback they have any season is going to produce high in numbers in fantasy. So, it just makes me a little bit nervous about JSN. Um, what does put him into this tier though is opportunity. Like, when we see, you know, the final tiers, it's going to be pretty clear that like there's something wrong with all these players, right? Everyone's going to have elite target competition. and they're going to have like other risk factors that either limit their ceiling or at least limit their chances of hitting that ceiling. JSN is by far the best wide receiver on the Seahawks. And let's be honest, if people think the Cup is cooked, people think the Cup can't stay healthy. Like, imagine if Cup missed time. The potential target share for JSN is right up there with Garrett Wilson, right? Only it would be on a better offense that's probably going to throw the ball more often. So, I do have Garrett Wilson over JSN because I think Garrett Wilson's just a better wide receiver and I trust um while I do trust Clint Kubak a little bit more, I guess, than the offensive coordinators on um the Jets, I don't trust Sam Darnold. I just don't think Sam Darnold's that good. I think he's being a little bit overrated this season. Also, one thing that I don't see talked about a ton is like if I don't believe in Sam Darnold, then that means I don't think this team is necessarily going to make the playoffs. And if that happens, do we see weeks like 14 on like Jaylen Milroe start a quarterback? Maybe they bench Sam Darnold. They test out what they have in Milro. And at that point, you're just tanking the upside for JSN. So that's another reason where I'm like a little hesitant. I definitely want to push him back behind Garrett Wilson. But again, the target potential is why he stays in this tier. Next tier, six players, tier five. Dvonte Adams, Tara McLuren, Mike Evans, DJ Moore, Dvontto Smith, and DK Metaf. As I said before, um this tier is where we start to introduce a lot more risk than in the other ones. Uh but, you know, there's still upside. So, like I don't want it to seem like all these players like super risky. They can't possibly, you know, pay off their ADP. Um we have league winning potential in every single one of these players. it just comes with either like a thinner path or maybe that actual ceiling is just a little bit lower than some players going ahead of them. But we'll start with Adams. Um ceiling is obvious. He's want Adams even at 32 and a half years old to start the season. He's an elite wide receiver playing with Matthew Stafford who's a great quarterback across from Puka. Maybe defense is going to fear, they probably will fear Puka a little bit more than Adams this season. Could see some of the most relaxed coverage of his career. Uh we also alluded to Puka's history of not necessarily being involved in the red zone. Uh that is a clear area that Adams can step up in dominate. The risk here is that, you know, it's pretty rare uh for a wide receiver to turn 33 in a season and post a league winning year like you're getting up there in age at 33 years old. Uh, Puka is also a stud and we know that the Rams um, while they're going to throw to wide receivers, one of the highest rates in the league, playing across from a truly elite target earner obviously is going to limit your ceiling. Stafford himself is also 37 years old, so there's some risk that he falls off. And of course, if Stafford falls off, the entire offense falls off. End of the day, I think Adams and Stafford probably have another season of elite production. Maybe only one left in them, but one more a year. Um, and I mean, look back to last year. Cooper Cup was the wide receiver six in points per game through week 14. I can promise you that Adams right now is better than Cooper Cup was last season. So, again, the ceiling is very clear. We could see both Puka and Adams be like top seven wide receivers this season. Um, makes a lot of sense that he would kind of lead off this tier. Uh, but again, I don't think he deserves to go into tier four. Those guys are also elite, but they're also in their prime and they have a much easier path to elite uh production, to a league winning season. After Adams, I think it's Terry McLuren uh who I haven't been drafting a ton of. I'm not totally against it, but he does turn 30 at the beginning of the season. That's not too old, but I think it's certainly older than a lot of people think he is. Also, last season, so much went right. Right. Like he was averaging four, five touchdowns in four straight seasons. spikes up to 13 despite his fewest targets since 2020. Uh they added Debo Samuel this off seasonason which people will have mixed feelings about. I agree that Debo is probably at the tail end of his career, but he's objectively better than Luke McCaffrey is. My big concern is that where Debo excels is something they utilize last season a lot with Terry McLuren is that's the screen game, right? So if they take away these free looks to Terry McLuren and they give them to Debo because that's what he's best at, you're taking away layup routes, you're taking away just like free receptions, free yards, high efficiency, and you're saying, okay, if you want him to be as targeted as before, he's not going to be as efficient because those targets need to come deeper downfield. So if that happens, and let's be honest, he's going to drop in touchdowns. It's unbelievably rare for wide receiver to consistently be at like four or five touchdowns throughout their career, then spike to 13 at age 29 and all of a sudden what they're going to do it again at age 30. Like it's it's very rare. I know the quarterback upgrade was there, but I don't care who you are. I don't care like how talented you and your quarterback is. 13 touchdowns is a lot of touchdowns that's going to come back this season. Um, and since he was only 15th in points per game last year, he doesn't have that much room to fall given his wide receiver 18 ADP. So, I like him in this spot. Um, because I know the role is locked in. I know Jane Dale is a league quarterback. Um, man hasn't missed the game since 2020. So, you know, for a fact he's going to be out there every single week. I'm just never excited to collect draft because I know it's super likely that he at best returns value. all other scenarios at worse, you know, he's going to slightly disappoint. That's never ideal. We're still kind of early in the draft. I would like someone that has, you know, a top five uh ceiling. He's got more competition after getting super lucky when he wasn't even a wide receiver one last year. He was 15th in points per game. So, a little bit thin for me. Again, I don't draft him that much, but I get the appeal. He's not going to like fall off and be terrible. It's just that he's probably not going to be a wide receiver one. So, you don't want to draft him too high. Um, I do honestly think there's a case for Mike Evans over Terry McLuren. Um, I'd kind of love to know your thoughts between the two of them. I would argue they're similarish in that, you know, their wide receivers getting up there in age. Um, coming off seasons where it's pretty likely they're going to regress, pretty likely both offenses will regress. Um, I think that, you know, I have Evans one spot back for re
