[1] These 2026 Fantasy Books Should Be Huge… So Why Do They Feel Different? — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYEsFjUJJnU

These are the books that will dominate fantasy in 2026. Here is why I am not that excited. Now, before I go into the books that I think will absolutely dominate next year, I need to give you a bit of an understanding of why I just feel a bit different about fantasy this year. So, some context, my most hyped book of 2025 without a doubt was The Devils by Joe Abberrombie. Joe Abocrombie is a legend, one [music] of the greatest fantasy authors of all time, and he came out with a book set in a totally new universe. Obviously, I was hyped. And at the moment, I'm reading my second most anticipated book of the year, Katabases by Arf Kuang. So, this is the special edition, but you can see the title here. I'll be honest, I didn't have that many books this year that I was super hyped for. I think there's like four. These two were definitely my most hyped ones. And this book here, it hurts me to say cuz I love Joe Abraham both as a person and as an author. But it was a disappointment. I gave it three stars. It was fine. I will be reading book two cuz there was enough in there for me to be intrigued. Unfortunately, like I expected this to be a five out of five star read, but just wasn't that excited for it. And then Katapas says, "I'm 350 pages into this book. I won't go into much detail, but this is as of now, I have 200 pages to go. The worst book I read this year, and I can't believe I'm saying this cuz I am not a Rebecca Kuang hater. I love the Puppy War trilogy. I love Babel. I'm actually listening to Yellowface and it's so good." But this book is I want to be careful cuz I'm not an author, but at the moment I want to use the word it's bad. And before anyone says I'm a hater of modern fantasy, I'm not. I read this book that came out this year recently. Very, very good. I loved it. And also this book here also came out early this year. Absolutely loved it. So, it's not like I hate modern fantasy, but those two books were just a huge letd down. Now, I've looked through a list like hundreds of different books coming out next year. There's a lot. There's maybe even a thousand different fantasy books coming out this year. And if I'm honest, most of them are just not targeted to me. There's a lot of romantic books coming out next year. And that's fine. And like I'm really happy for those who love those books, but they're just [music] not my type of books. And the ones that I have found that have like intrigued me, I would say around 50 of them are again not books that I'm already excited about, which gives me a list that is not that long of books I feel incredibly hyped for. And if I looked back 5 years ago, my list of anticipated books for a whole year would have been much, much, much bigger than next year. That being said, I still believe that 2026 will be an amazing year for fantasy. The books that I am excited for, I'm really excited for. I'll just say this. If you are in the same camp as me, then there's still reasons for you to be excited for next year. And I'll give you the reasons very, very shortly. But I've also now given you a heads up that 2026 might be a year where I actually read a lot of my backlog and maybe also a lot of self-published novels because as I said, the list of books I feel like I need to read coming out next year, at least of the books I found, is relatively short. And before anyone asks, no, we do not have a release date for the winds of winter by George R. Martin, the thorn of amberlain by Scott Lynch or the doors of stone by Patrick Roth. Patrick Roth of Patrick Rothfus. If this novels come out next year, I'll be utterly utterly shocked. Yeah. And instead of me just listing out 100 books coming out next year, I'll just give you like one or two for each month that really like piqued my interest. So consider this more like a highlight reel of 2026. So in January next year, there are only two releases that I thought were like, wo, those are quite interesting. Obviously 12 months by Jim Butcher is coming out, which is like book number 18 [music] in the dress and files. I haven't addressed files, but this is obviously massively excited for the dress and files fans. This is one of the biggest fantasy series ongoing at the moment. I'll definitely say it's one of the biggest urban fantasy series of all time and the fact that it's getting a new release is super super exciting. The other book that kind of took my attention was this book here called The Poet Empress. So, the publisher actually sent me an ARC and I did request it. Now, I was actually really intrigued by the premise of this novel, but it's marketed as a romanty, which has made me a bit worried. So, I'm actually not sure if I'm going to read this unless if someone actually tells me that they think I would actually love this one. So, that's Jary. All right. I hope I haven't been too negative in this video so far. So, let's talk about one thing I am genuinely so hyped for, which is Christmas. Now, I know this might seem a bit random, but I need to show you this jumper I'm wearing because this is honestly one of the coolest Christmas jumpers I've ever owned. So, this is basically the Starry Night portrait of Santa sweatshirt from 11 Oasis, who are also sponsoring today's video. Now, they make these really cool, distinctive pieces for guys who actually want their clothes to say something about their personality. And honestly, this Christmas jumper here screams, "Look at me." But what I just love so much about this one is that, you know, most Christmas jumpers are so ugly, but I genuinely think that this one is really cool. Now, I'm wearing a medium, and for reference, I am 174 cm, but the medium here is definitely a bit on the bigger side for me. So, just keep that in mind if you're a bit like me and you want a slimmer fit. What I just love so much about this Christmas jumper is that it's not generic at all. You know, you got Santa here with Van Go swirling sky. I mean, it's just it's really really awesome. So, if you want to grab one of the many many different jumpers from 11 Oasis they have now for the Christmas sale, then I've actually got an exclusive 20% off discount code with the code Viking 20. And I'll leave a link in description down below. Yeah, thank you so much to 11 Oasis for sponsoring this video. Definitely go out and check out one of these jumpers. In February, we have Operations Bounce House by Matt Denman. So obviously if you're a fan of dungeon crawler Carl, this is going to be one of your biggest and most mis anticipate releases of this year. This is not a dungeon crawler Carl novel, but it's very much a lit RPG. I have read two dungeon crawler carl books. They weren't really for me. I'm not sure if I would enjoy this. But this cover, this arc is so cool. So I'm actually kind of intrigued to actually pick up this novel. I read the first chapter. It was fine, but I might pick up this one. The book I am really excited for in February, which is probably the first book of the year, is Hammerfall by Rob J. Hi. So, I already have an arc. I'll be reading this very, very shortly. It's a very cool cover. I've never seen a fancy cover like this. It's almost like a video game. I read two of the novelas in the God God Eater Saga. I haven't read the main novel. I love the novels or sorry, the novelas. They were so dark and good and I can't wait to read this one and it's short. So, I'll definitely be picking up this one soon. Now, the novel that I am super super interested in and seeing how well it sells and how it's received is Of Blood and Fire by Ran Kyle. So obviously this novel came out in 2021 has sold hundreds of thousands of copies as a self-published novel but is now being traditionally published by the broken binding who set up their own press. You will see this novel with a new cover and new illustrations in bookstores across the country in February next year. Now the reason why this is so interesting and I am could almost make a whole video about this is because the last 3 years has been dominated by lit RPG dominated by romanty especially and a lot of like fun humorous type of novels. If you read this one this reads like a copy of Wheel of Time with a blend of John Gwyn's the Faithful and the Fallen. It's very very classic fantasy especially the first book. The later books definitely branch out and become its own thing. But this is it reads like a classic fantasy. I am so intrigued. If this sells well, it's too early to say, but this could potentially be a sign of other publishers seeing well this types of fantasy still sells well. We should look more into it. So I'm so so curious and excited and obviously Rankal is a lovely human being. So yeah, I love the series. You know that if you watch my channel. All right, let's go to March. I'm only going to highlight two different novels here. Firstly, the next book in the Steel God series by Richard Swan is coming out and I'm so excited. I love this novel. I love Richard Swan. If you watch my channel, I always hype it up as someone that brings new stuff to the table in the genre. Amazing writer. I'm addicted. This is fantasy horror at its best with amazing characters, amazing world building. Love it, love, love it. I will read anything Richard Swan writes. I'm addicted to his writing. So, I can't wait for that one. And that is actually one of the few novels I'm genuinely so hyped for. The other one worth mentioning here is Children of Strife by Adam Chakoski is coming out next year which is the fourth novel in the Children of Time universe. I read the first two Children of Time books. The first book Children of Time is a masterpiece. I did not love or enjoy book two at all. But yeah, there's a fourth novel coming out now and this is going to be a huge huge release for sure. Children of Time won the Nebula Award and is one of the most famous and popular modern sci-fi novels. So I'm sure this will go everywhere. Adam Chakoski has like three other books or four other books coming out next year. I'm not going to highlight them here, but yeah, if you're a Jacoski fan, as every year, there will be loads and loads more books coming from him because that man is a machine. All right, we're now moving into April of 2026, and the next novel, The Captives War series by James S. A. Curry is coming out. I read this novel when it came out last year. I really, really enjoyed it. Now, obviously, the authors of The Expanse, one of the greatest and most popular modern sci-fi series, came out with a new series, and I haven't heard many people talk about this novel. I thought it was really good. But yeah, next novel is coming out. I'll definitely be keeping an eye on that one and I'll probably read it because I really enjoyed it. And then just very very quickly, if you are a fan of this series here, The Tainted Cop series by Robert Jackson Bennett, the third novel is coming out in April as well. I read the first novel, gave it three stars, so not something I'm super hyped for, but yeah, I know a lot of my viewers will be very, very excited for the third [music] book in this universe. May 2026, I'm going to highlight three releases and there's only one I'm so crazy crazy excited for. Look, I'm not only hating all these releases, there's one again in May I'm so excited for. But let me highlight two other ones I'm sure a lot of my viewers will be super excited for. Firstly, there is rumored that a new Murderbot novel by Martha Wells is coming out in May. If you know me, I read the first two Murderbot. I thought they're fine, but yeah, I haven't read the other books cuz I didn't love it that much. And there's a new dungeon crawler Carl novel rumored to come out in May next year. The publisher very kindly sent me the three first novels in this universe. I'm actually intrigued now to continue. I read the first two novels. I was quite lukewarm, but a lot of people have told me different things about this series that has made me intrigued to jump back in. Yeah, if you're DCC fan, the next year is going to be huge cuz there's two Matt novels and one DCC and one non DCC. It's the best time ever, isn't it? But the novel that I am so excited for. One of my most anticipated releases of next year is The Last Contact of Iso or Isako, I don't know how you pronounce that, by Fonda. It's a new sci-fi space opera standalone which usually is not something I gravitate towards but it's Fonda Lee. Fonda Lee the greatest modern fantasy author of all time. Okay, that's maybe too high praise [laughter] for the green Baga is so good and the short stories and novelas in the universe are so good and I love Fonda Lee. Obviously I'm going to be reading this. I will be reading anything Fondly writes cuz her character work, her world building is and writing is next level. So excited for this one. And [music] then in June, just one release I'm going to highlight. Song of the Dead by Brandon Sanderson and Peter Aurelion. I don't really have any interest [music] as of now in this novel. This novel is about a rocker from London. So, a musician that discovers there's like a secret society of magicians controlling London and then his life is in peril. It sounds like a rock and roll fun time, lots of humor and all those things, but that just does not sound the novel that is for me. I might actually pick it up. Obviously, Sanderson, I'm going to keep an eye on anything he writes, and if a lot of people say different things about this novel that might make it sound like something for me, I will definitely keep an eye on it. I do believe the next two books in this trilogy will not be written or co-authored by Brandon Sanderson. So, very, very fascinating that Sanderson decided to get involved with this trilogy, but yeah, that's coming out in June next year. No Cosmir coming out in 2026 at all. So, that's also a change, I suppose. All right. Then in July, we have the biggest release, I would argue, of the whole year. Now, this is a rumored date, but Red God by Pierce [music] Brown, the last novel in the Red Rising universe, is rumored to come out in the summer of 2026. Hence why I'm just saying July here. That may be August, that may be June. We don't really know, but when this novel comes out next year, which I'm pretty certain it will, it'll be huge. Obviously, Red Rising is one of the biggest ongoing sci-fi series at the moment, and the hype for this is so real. I read the first trilogy. I thought it was fine, but I haven't continued. So, for me personally, this is not something I'm like losing sleep over, but I'm so excited for you guys out there that love Red Rising. And then in August, and here is another reason why I think 2026 might still be amazing. Cuz yes, if you're a Matt Dimma fan, you're getting two Minimma novels. Guess what guys, I am getting at least as of now two Richard Swan novels next year. How lucky am I? So, Richard Swan is launching the first book in the Doran saga. Uh, the first book is called The Infinite State, which is a sci-fi fantasy blend. Now, I prefer fantasy. I enjoy sci-fi as well, but I've said it before. I don't care what Swan writes. I will read anything he publishes, just like Fonda Lee, and I'm so so so hyped for this. We have rumored that the last novel in the last legacy trilogy by James Logan is going to come out. This came out last week at time of recording this novel. So, this came out in November 2025. A lot of people expect the third and last novel to come out next year. I really, really love the first novels. There are so many plot twists and they're just really, really fun. So, I can't wait to read the third and last book in this trilogy. Next year, it's rumored that the second novel in the Devils is going to come out. Now, we haven't received a confirmation date, but the reason why I feel quite confident this will come out is because I'm pretty sure that Joe Abberrompie, he took off like 3 years or four years to write at least the first two novels. He might even have written most of the third novel as well to release them back to back similarly to what he did with Age of Madness where he took a long gap wrote all three books in the trilogy and then they just came out year by year. So that's why I believe this will probably come out sometimes next year and obviously as I said I'm not that excited but I will be reading it because it's Joe Abberrombie. Also rumored that the next novella in the bound and the broken universe is going to come out next year. The fourth novel in this universe came out this year is a chunker. It's like this thick. But Rank Kyle also writes nollas in this universe and it's rumored the next novela will come out next year. And then obviously as I've already said of Blood and Fire, the traditional published version will also come out in February. So a big year for Ryan Kyle for sure. There's also rumored that a prequel novella which has become more like a novel at this point according to word count. The splintered son by Ted Williams. The prequel novella to memor Thorn is rumored to come out sometimes late 2026. I read Memories of Thorn last year and it's become one of my favorite trilogies of all time. So, I'm definitely excited for this one. And lastly, we have rumors that Alto the Ninth by Tamson Muer Mure. I don't know how to pronounce that last name is going to come out. Obviously, I have not read any of the novels in this universe, but there's so much anticipation. Also, because from my understanding, we still don't know if that is going to be the last book in the series or if there's one [music] more after that. But I know readers have been waiting for this for quite a while. But yeah, looking at this list, there's only eight [music] books that I'm like crazy hyped for. There's around four that I'm very hyped for. The other ones are just like huge releases and series I haven't read. And then if you go online, you know, there, as I said, there's hundreds of other fancy novels coming out next year as of now just don't seem that interesting to me. They might take my attention later on when reviews start coming out and the marketing starts increasing, stuff like that. Obviously, even if every single book that comes out next year absolutely sucks, there are so many books on my shelves I haven't read. So, I am totally confident that next year will be an amazing reading year. But, I don't know. Am I just getting old and grumpy and like a hater? I don't think so. But yeah, let me know which fantasy novels you are excited for and see you in next
