[1] Top 4 Fantasy Football Draft Values to Target in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EMSr6gjovW8

We're balling on a budget. That's right. It's our favorite 2025 fantasy football value picks. Welcome into Fantasy Pros. I'm your host, Seth Wilcock, and today I'm joined by both Pat Fitz Morris and Derek Brown. In this video, we'll help you make the most of your draft capital this season with four players who are going way too low in drafts. And before we jump in, just want to shout out everyone who's watching on the Fantasy Pros YouTube channel or listening on the podcast feed. Thank you so much for hanging out with us. As always, the easiest free way to support us. Give this video a thumbs up if you enjoy this type of content. Also, make sure you subscribe if you're new. We got a lot of content coming for you in season and a whole lot more in between now and then. And let's pop the top off with Fitz's favorite or second favorite value pick for 2025. What do you have for us, my friend? My second favorite value pick for 2025, Seth, is Tedo McMillan, the rookie wide receiver for the Carolina Panthers. Nice. Is he ECR? is wide receiver 28 59 overall. I have him at wide receiver 2146 overall. Wow. McMillan is being undervalued because people are always hesitant to invest too aggressively in rookies who have blank NFL resumes. And in this case, there's probably also some bakedin hesitation to trust Bryce Young even though he's playing quite well by the end of the 2024 season. I just I hope our viewers and listeners will take advantage of the malaise tortto McMillan. Like he is a truly outstanding prospect. He was drafted eighth overall and averaged 108.8 yards per game over his final two college seasons. Uh he's an advanced route runner and oh by the way Tedo McMillan is 6'5. Um there is some touchdown upside there. The Panthers other receivers are Adam Thelen, who's about to turn 35. Xavier Legette, who was pretty awful as a rookie, and Jaylen Coker, who like Dro, I'm actually pretty fond of, but let's face it, I mean, Coker is an undrafted former free agent from Holy Cross. Useful supporting cast member, not someone who's going to siphon a lot of targets away from soon to be leading man Tedo McMillan. Carolina just doesn't have much pass catching firepower at tight end either. Panthers are probably going to have one of the worst defenses in the league this season. And if Carolina is trying to keep up with high-scoring opponents, uh they're going to have to be passing the ball at a higher than average rate. I think it's very possible Tedoa McMillan finishes top 10 in targets as a rookie. And if that happens, we're going to look back in utter astonishment at his ECR of wide receiver 28. Man, I'm completely in with with you. And uh I just got sniped trying to pick Tedro McMillan in Scott Fishbowl here in the past week. So still a little bit bitter. And Dro, I know as a prospect you like Ted quite a bit. Do you still like him with the question marks that surround this Carolina Panthers offense under Dave Canales? I I I'm emphatically nodding my head the entire time Fitzy is just walking us through this cuz I cannot agree more with him. I've got Tedroy McMillan as wide receiver 1738 overall. Like I just he's a wide receiver too, man. He's it through and through. And I think for everything Fitzy lays out, this is a case of people Tedo McMillan getting too much shade. People just wanting to shade that wide receiver class as a whole and people talking out both sides of their mouth saying, "Okay, well he's too slow to be a top 10 pick, but then he is." And then saying, "Well, but we want to compreh but he is." And the part about the offense that I really want to illuminate here that gives the upside for Ted outside of the the pathway for him to be the un like unquestioned wide receiver one alpha in this offense is also that Carolina last year it's really going under the radar guys they were fourth in red zone passing rate 12th in passing rate inside of the 10 yard line. If this offense takes another step, if Bryce Young can be the guy he was in weeks 12 through 18, Tedro McMillan, I've already bet the over for his receiving touchdowns at betting pros right now. He he has double digit touchdown upside in his range of outcomes unquestionably. Wow. Okay. Uh, a couple names I just want to throw out. Would you rather here for you, Pat and Dro? Uh, Tyreek Hill or or Tedaroa? T it's Tyreek Hill for me. Terry McLuren. It's really close. Mclloren ranked higher. I think that I I have them backto back. Um yeah, I mean I've got I've got Ted at 17 and McLaren at 18. Some of the the hold out holdin stuff could suade that. Like right now in a vacuum I'll take Ted. DJ Moore. Oh, it's easy Ted. Not even close. I do have McMillan ranked higher. Okay. Not even close. All right. D Bro, you're heading to Nashville for your second favorite value. What are you seeing valuewise down there on Broadway? Tony Pard, he's standing on Broadway and he's saying, "Come on, love me. Love me. Why do you not love me?" He was a top 24 running back last year and everything about his situation improved. And yet right now he's 66 overall. He's the RB 26 in ECR. He's my 52nd overall player. I have him at RB19 and so yes, I'm expect I'm expecting him to take a step forward. He is the guy like one of the guys you can get in those middle rounds where it's just it's talent and it's also volume. So he's the perfect RB2 for regardless of however you're building your teams or a flex play. This guy everything around him got better. They made uh additions to the offensive line. We know the coaching for that offensive line is going to be good in Tennessee. Cam Ward hopefully is directing a better offense. And I know people are like, "Oh, what about Taj Spears?" Dude, Pard proved last year again that he can be a workhorse. He can be a Bellcow. He was ninth in snap share, opportunity share, and weighted opportunities. And I know people say, "Well, that if Spears is more is healthier, does that come down?" Pard's the unquestioned leader of this backfield. Maybe a snapshare goes from like 75% to 70% in the high 60s. He's still going to be the leader as far as when they get into the red zone and as far as volume. Again, RB22 in fantasy points per game last year. He was he was top 20 in both explosive run rate and sixth in yards after contact per attempt. So that per touch efficiency is back for Tony Pard. He was the RB 15 and expected fantasy points per game. So because of bad quarterback play, everything just flaming out around him, he didn't even produce to the level that he should have last year because of all those circumstances surrounding him. Mhm. Dude, that comes back this year. I mean, Tony Pard could be a top 15 running back based off of volume and an improved situation. So you're telling me I get him at RB3 price tags? That is a crazy value. I'm also back in on Tony P here. And like you you kind of mentioned ninth most weighted opportunities, not the most efficient running back, but at the same time still 15th in explosive rating as well. And in addition to that, he saw a light front on only 54.2% of his carries. That's 37th among running backs. I think yeah, you insert Cam Ward, you insert at least a better group of supplemental pass catchers on the outside as well. I think that should help. Uh Fitz, are you also in on Tony Per? Are you handh holding with Dro and I? I'm a little more lukewarm on Pard than you guys are. He averaged 5.1 yards per carry and 6.3 yards per target over his first four NFL seasons. Over the last two, 4.1 per carry, only 4.4 yards per target. He just he hasn't looked like the same guy he was in Dallas early in his career. And I actually do like Tai Spears. I know Spears was kind of a non-factor last year, but I'm giving him a mulligan in a season where he had two concussions, an ankle issue, a hamstring issue. Like Spears was really electric in his first year and real quietly caught 52 passes as a rookie in 2023 and now Brian Callahan is talking about wanting Spears to get more involved in maybe even having this be like a shared backfield. So, not quite as warm on Tony Pard, but not totally out on him either. Okay, before we keep it moving, I wanted to tell everyone about the Fantasy Pros Draft Assistant. Draft Assistant helps you spot values like this live. It connects directly to your draft and provides both real-time pick suggestions and estimations on which players might and might not make it back to your next pick. Draft Assistant fully integrates your customized cheat sheets and suggest picks based on your rankings, team build, ADP, and other factors. Dominate your draft in real time without the guesswork with draft assistant at fantasypros.com/assass assistant or always on the fantasy pros fantasy football draft wizard app. Let's keep the picks coming with Fitz's favorite value in all the land for 2025. Taking us back to the quarterback position. Who you got, man? It's Drake May whose ECR is QB16 108th overall. I have Drake May QB8 89th overall. I think he's this year's Jaden Daniels. Wow. May Drake May started 12 games as a rookie. He left one game in the second quarter with a concussion and in meaningless week 18, he played three snaps before he got pulled. In the other 10 starts, Drake May averaged 17.4 fantasy points per game, which would have ranked QB 13 among quarterbacks who made more than one start. Now, if we exclude that week 18 game when May was pulled after one series, he averaged uh I think it was 37.2 rushing yards per start. Wow. And that projects to like 632 rushing yards over a full season. But I would contend that we just saw the tip of the iceberg with regard to Drake May's rushing potential. Nearly all of that rushing yardage came on scrambles. There were very few designed runs. Alex Vanpel, the Patriots OC last year, said he limited the designed runs for May to protect him. Now, Josh Daniels is running the Patriots offense. Yes, sir. Um, a few months ago, Nate Ty of Yahoo went back and looked at the designed runs that McDaniels drew up for uh then 31-year-old Cam Newton when Cam was starting for the Patriots in 2020. And there were a lot of them, and they were effective. Newton ran for 12 touchdowns that year. Wow. Now, Drake May had two touchdown runs last year, but when he was playing his college ball at North Carolina, May had 16 touchdown runs in 26 starts. And as a sophomore, May had 698 rushing yards in 14 games. And college QBs get sack yardage deducted from their rushing total. Uh May lost about 200 yards in sacks that year. So, he was really closer to uh like 900 rushing yards in 14 games. And as for the the passing end of things, made a bad offensive line and a bad group of wide receivers last year and still managed to complete 66.6% of his passes and average a respectable 6.7 yards per attempt. So now the Patriots have shored up the offensive line and the receiver core still not great, but Stefon Diggs and and rookie Kyle Williams should help things like May should not be going behind Justin Herbert who's stuck in a runheavy offense. May should not be going behind Dak Prescott and Jared Goff who had no rushing value. And I would contend that May should be going ahead of Justin Fields because he's in Fields class as a runner and Drake May is a better passer than Justin Fields is. Yeah. So I have May ranked QB8. I really do believe he's going to be a top 10 quarterback this season if he stays healthy. And I'm trying to get May at around quarterback 13 basically after everyone in my 12 team league has drafted a starter. And I'm sort of using Justin Fields as an alarm clock for uh Drake May. When Fields gets picked, I want to take Drake May in the next round or two. I think that's so smart. And like if I don't get one of those big five quarterbacks this season and the way drafts have been going, I likely will not be and likely have to punt the position. And if that's the case, those are my two targets is Justin Fields and it's Drake May. As you mentioned, he did uh only take 30% of the snaps in week eight before leaving with that concussion, but since taking over the starting job in week six, QB12 overall, QB14 points per game, that's the floor in my opinion. And with the improved offensive line, better pass catchers as well, plus a capable coaching staff. I'm in on Drake May as well. Derek, are you uh also high on the Patriots signal caller? Yeah, man. Like, I moved them up in my ranks. I'm not nearly as high as Fitzy, but like you know, so I love Fitzy saying it with his chest. I think there's a definitive chance that that May is a top 12 quarterback this year. I mean, just in our uh projections on the site, to Fitzy's point, May is eighth in rushing yards in our projections and 10th in rushing attempts. So, and and again, like for everybody to contextualize projections, a lot of those are median outcomes. Like you're not going to see projection sets that are putting out like the high-end outcome. So like correct, he if he best this, he's going to be he could be top five in both of those metrics this year. So especially looking at the context of the offense around him. So Drake May could easily be a top 12 quarterback. I love the call. Derek Brown, round us out with your favorite value who's already making waves at Cowboys training camp as we speak. Dude, it's George Pickkins. He is inappropriately priced. I mean, he's 71st overall in ECR, wide receiver 32. I feel like these rankings are living in yester year. I have George Pickkins as a top 20 wide receiver. He's my wide receiver 16. And I people could be surprised to hear that. But you're telling me on a Dallas Cowboys offense that we know is going to be top 10 in passing attempts. Where's the ball going outside of CD Lamb and Jake Ferguson and George Pickkins? It is a consolidated target share. You saw last year with Pickkins in weeks one through 13 before he picked up the hamstring, he was producing as a top 24 wide receiver. He was 18th in separation. He was eighth in yards per route run, 25th in route win rate. Again, he goes from the Pittsburgh freaking Steelers. Seth, you know this pain well that threw the ball at the fourth lowest rate. They had the fourth fewest passing attempts last year. He's going to the Dallas Cowboys with freaking Cooper Rush playing half of the season. They were third in passing attempts. And we don't think that George Pickkins can be a top 24 wide receiver. That's not where he's ranked. We're living in yester year. He's going to go up the ranks in the process like as we get training camp clips, all that kind of stuff. He's a wide receiver, too. I'll say that with my chest. He's going to be a wide receiver, too, with the volume that he's going to see. And if you don't believe any of the other stuff that I've said in this money talks, he's in a contract year. Sure. So, Pickkins wants to get paid. Jerry Jones, I'm not a Jerry Jones believer, and I'm not going to talk well about Jerry Jones and probably any other show, but Jerry Jones has dealt with diva wide receivers pretty well throughout the entirety in Dallas. We can point back to Dez Bryant, Terrell Owens, and a whole other slew of guys. George Pickkins, if he keeps his head on straight with the passing volume and the talent that he has, he's a wide receiver, too, this year, and he's being drafted and ranked as a wide receiver three. It's wrong. He's an awesome value. Fitz, where do you have GP range? I'm in line with ADP and ECR. I've got him at wide receiver 32, but I also know I'm too low and I I need to move him ahead of a couple guys I have ahead of him right now like Z Flowers for one thing. I I would much rather have Pickins or rather have Pickkins. Um I know people are going to be scared off by CD Lamb hogging targets in Dallas. Dro lays out the case for that not being the thing we should look at. the higher passing volume for Dallas and uh the fact that Dallas's defense might not be very good this year might force Dak Prescott to be real pass heavy. So yeah, like plus maybe some lesser matchups uh or lesser cornerbacks that Pickkins is going to be facing now that he's the number two and you know defenses throw a lot of attention at Lamb. So I like the call. Well, and we we're not discussing them here, but does anybody think considering the constitution of that running back room that they're going to be runheavy? M. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. All right. Well, uh, that's going to do it for us today on Fantasy Pros. We hope we helped you stretch that dollar. Thanks so much for watching. As always, the best free way to support us. Give this video a thumbs up if you enjoy this type of content. And make sure you're subscribing to the channel if you're new. Also, let us know down in the comments below your favorite values. We want to hear from you. For Pat Fitz Morris and Derek Brown, I'm Seth Wilco. Take care, y'all. [Music] [Music]
