[1] Upcoming 2026 Sci Fi Books I'm Looking Forward To — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sw2tAdrOhvA

[Music] Hi guys. Let's talk about some of the science fiction books that are coming at you in 2026. Hey guys. So, one of the best parts of looking forward into the new year is seeing what the year is going to look like as far as books coming out. Now, as you all know, the publishing industry is very well known to be a little inconsistent. Sometimes they have a big book coming out and they don't really start doing a good job marketing it or telling people it's coming out until a couple weeks or a couple months before it comes out. So, remember that this list has to be taken with a grain of salt. However, I did divide this list into two parts. The first one is going to be books that are actually anticipated. These are books that have a release date and they often have a cover release. So, these are books that it's okay to be excited about because they're likely going to actually be a sure bet. Whereas, I'm also going to have the second category, which I'm going to call the rumored books. These are ones that don't have a actual cover or they don't have a title release. And these are ones that may or may not actually happen. So, remember to take all of these with a grain of salt. So, let's get into the books. All right. So, starting off, I want to begin with a very interesting publishing conundrum that none other than Peter F. Hamilton is doing, which is a very interesting. He has decided to release an entire trilogy of books that are scheduled to come out throughout the entire year. This is called the Archship Trilogy and the first book in the series is called A Hole in the Sky and it will be released January 20th. Now, book number two is going to be called Captain's Daughter and it will be released June 9th. And book number three has a tentative date for December 1st. So, it's kind of interesting that he has planned this entire trilogy that are all going to be released within a single year. Now, what's even more interesting about this particular series that he's releasing is I don't know a whole lot about it. I couldn't find a synopsis on it. So, if you happen to know or if there is a link that people can read about, please make sure to mention it in the comment section down below. I also don't know if this is a young adult series or if this is an adult sci-fi series. I'm kind of thinking it's more of an adult series, but I don't know that for sure. So, you know, I'm really excited about checking out this series and seeing exactly what he's doing with this publishing. Um, I kind of like that idea of publishing all of the books in the series um in within the same year, so we don't have to wait. All right. Now, let's get into some other books. Coming out in January 13th, we have a book called Detour. This is going to be by Jeff Rake and Robert Hurt and it's going to be a sci-fi survival thriller where the astronauts get lost coming home and end up taking a detour. Wow, very aptly named. So, this one has been quite hyped up and it has a very beautiful cover as you can see here. So, um this is one that I will definitely be checking out for and seeing if anybody that I know recommends it. Then coming in January 20th, we have two books. The first one is going to be 12 months by Jim Butcher. This is book number 18 in The Dresden Files and is one that I am so looking forward to. This reminds me that I need to hurry up with the Dresden Files series cuz I've kind of fallen behind a little bit. Oops. Then our second release on that day is going to be by Peter Clines, Gods Juggernaut. This is supposed to be a really fun time travel novel where somebody ends up going into a pocket universe that they're calling Gods Juggernaut. This sounds like lots of potential to me, so I'm very much looking forward to this candy read. I have already pre-ordered it. Next on January 27th, we have Alastair Reynolds Halcyon Years. This is supposed to be a solar punk noir murder mystery story and it looks like it's a standalone, but it might be occurring within the Revelation Space Universe. I don't know that for sure, but I do know that there are quite a lot of booktubers who got e-arcs of this one. So, I'm going to be looking forward to hearing people's review of this one. I also have to do a quick little plug for the audiobook release of Artifact Space by Miles Cameron. This one was not available in the US for a very long time and it's really hard to find this first book and I guess that's because they were saving up for the audiobook release on January 27th. This one is supposed to be about a woman who joins a crew of what's known as a great ship and it travels among the universe and she ends up getting to know all of the deeper secrets inside the ship and about the space that it's traveling in. This one sounds a little bit like a fun darker Star Trek story that I kind of want to try out, but um I haven't been able to pick it up because it's not available in the US. So, I'm really pumped about this release. So, we're going to skip February entirely and we're going to move into March. Coming in March 5th, we have Wolfskin by Jeremy Szal. This is book number three in the Common series that started with Stormblood and also Blindspace. This is a book about bio soldiers who have taken an alien drug that makes them addicted to their own chemistry, but it also makes them incredibly strong. Now, this series has been really fun because the first book was a little bit military sci-fi adventure and then the second book was a little bit more space opera and I'm really excited to see what the third book has to offer. This author is definitely my one to watch on this list. Then on March 10th, we have a book on an author that I haven't heard much about and that is Damian Ober who made a book called Void Verse. Now, Void Verse is marketed as Dune meets Wall, which is kind of interesting. Now, I know that some of these claims can be a little bit more hyped up than uh what the actual book is, but that's a heck of a pitch. So, I'm very eagerly anticipating um hearing other people's reviews on this one to decide if I'm going to pick this one out. Then on March 17th, we have of course our first Adrian Tchaikovsky release of the year and that's going to be Children of Strife. This one is book number four of the Children of Time series and we are following our beloved characters as they discover another planet that has been partially terraformed by the dying Earth. So, uh this one could be very interesting or it might be a disappointment like Children of Memory. We all find out. Now, then moving on to April, we have April 14th with the release of Faith of Beasts by James S.A. Corey. This is of course book number two in the Captured Humans series that started with Mercy of the Gods. Now, this book series was a very controversial and a lot of people really aren't sure if they love the moral ambiguity of the characters in this particular story. However, we're going to continue to follow our friend David who has risen in the ranks of the Carax. So, if you're not sure what I'm talking about, you definitely need to pick up Mercy of Gods and decide if you like that one or not. I got to say I'm a bit on the fence on whether or not I'm going to pick this one up, but I'm probably going to, so just fair warning. Next, let's move on to May and in May 5th, we have Platform Decay by Martha Wells and in case you don't know, this is going to be book number eight in the Murderbot series. That's right, we have another one coming. This one is about a socially awkward, socially anxious android and or AI. I'm I'm not quite sure. Is it an android or is it an AI? I don't know. And I'm very much eagerly anticipating this story. What I don't know about Platform Decay is whether or not this book is a novella or a novel. I don't know. Then coming in May 26th, we have Parade of Horribles by Matt Dinniman. That's right, you guys, we have book number eight in the Dungeon Crawler Carl series. Now, this one is one that I have been listening to on audio since the beginning, so I will definitely be picking this one up as well. Then in June, we have June 16th, Helium Sea by Peter Hamilton. Man, Hamilton has been writing a lot of books lately and been keeping it a secret for 2026. Now, in case you don't know, Helium C is going to be a second book that follows up his book that was released recently called Exodus. Now, both of these books are a tie-in to a video game that has yet to be released. So, kind of an exciting series and one that I haven't decided if I'm going to pick up yet or not. But, as he comes out with more and more books in this world and series, maybe it is something I will consider picking up. So, we'll see how this goes. Then, on June 25th, we have Green City Wars by Adrian Tchaikovsky. This is his second release this year, but it will be a standalone. This one is also described as a solar punk noir. Now, that's two books that have this description. Very interesting, seems to be the theme of the year. But, solar punk noir about genetically engineered animals who are trying to solve a mystery. And the main character of this one is a raccoon hybrid that is also a detective. And you know how I feel about Adrian Tchaikovsky, so this is one that I will likely pick up. Although, I do have to say, he's going to have a hard time beating some of his other novels, so we'll see. And that does it for the books that are confirmed coming out. Now, let's get into the rumored books. So, you guys remember, take this with a grain of salt, but here are some of the rumored releases that I'm really excited about. So, the first one is book number three in the Delta-V series by Dennis E. Taylor. I absolutely adore this series and I thought the second book was better than the first. So, he's going to have some pretty big shoes to step into with his third book, but if it comes out this year, I will be in line to get it the day it comes out. So, I'm a very excited about that one. Then, we have the rumored next book in the Bobiverse series by Dennis E. Taylor. I would love to see another Bobiverse book coming out. I love this series and will absolutely support every single one that comes out. I absolutely love the audiobooks. It's just a such a fun, incredible series. It's one I'm really excited about and one that I'm super hopeful will actually happen. Then, we have book number seven in the Donovan series by W. Michael Gear. Now, this is a new-to-me series, but one that I have absolutely fallen in love with. This book starts with Outpost, if you don't know, and I would highly, highly recommend this series. It is a book series that just gets better and better and better as I go along in the series. It is a book series that I will 100% be trying to get to and finish and pick up the next book in the series. Then, we have book number five in the Revelation Space series. This is one that doesn't have a title yet, but apparently Alastair Reynolds has been working on. I'm a little bit more apprehensive about this particular book because it doesn't have a title and usually Alastair Reynolds makes it a little bit more exciting if if it's coming. Usually, we get some kind of, you know, release date. So, I bet that one's probably on hold for now. Then, we have a book that does have a title, Red God by Pierce Brown. This is book number seven in the Red Rising series. However, it doesn't have a cover or a release date yet. So, that might mean that it's either still in editing or still being written. And it's okay, Pierce. Don't worry. It's all right if it takes a little while. Make it a really good one. Then, we have book number three in the Shades of Grey series by Jasper Fforde. This one does have a title as well called The Gordini Protocols. This is a series that I have really come to know and love. I really, really enjoyed it. We waited a lot of years between Shades of Grey and the second in the series, Redside Story. And Redside Story really ended up this series, so I am very eagerly anticipating book number three. Then, we have book number six in the Lady Astronaut series by Mary Robinette Kowal. Now, she has just been on a roll because she just released The Martian Contingency book number five last year. So, I would be really surprised if she was able to get out another one, although I'm not arguing against it if she does. Then, we have book number three in The Space Between Worlds by Micaiah Johnson. This is not one that I was ready to see as a series, and yet here she is outdoing herself by coming up with another book. I really enjoy seeing this author learn and hone her writing craft. She really gets better every single book. I'm in for a third book. Let's check it out. Now, two books that both have titles, but are going to be standalones that I am hoping really come out, is Losing Gravity by Cameron Hurley. Again, I don't know anything about this book. I hope it's not just a short story collection. It's a whole new story. This is an author that I have been really loving lately and one that I'm thinking about rereading. So, I would love for her to come out with a new book next year in 2026. And then, we have Prescribed Burn by Arkady Martine. This is one that I have also been waiting for. I also really want to read more by this author. She has such an a very interesting imagination and it looks like it's a standalone. Again, I don't know that it's not a novella or a short story collection, but it is one that has been rumored to be released. So, you guys, that does it for all of the books that I know about that I can reasonably confirm might be coming out in 2026. I know that there are some books on here that I'm very, very excited about and others that I'm doubting might come out this year, but we'll see what actually happens. If you know about more books that are coming out in 2026, please let me know in the comment section down below and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.
