[1] Top 10 Sci Fi Books I Read in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_gclF4lABgA

Hi, it's Penny here and this is going to be the top 10 science fiction books that I read in 2025. So, like with my top 10 fantasy books, I'm going to start off with number 10 being a reread because in 2025, I was doing a project where I was rereading books that I'd read like 10 or more years ago. So, for science fiction books, I did pick up the Bill Dame Apocrypha series by Cameron Hurley. I'll put the um newer covers here actually because I'm too lazy to hold all these books up. But I'm so glad that I reread this series because it was such a different experience 10 years later now that my reading tastes have changed quite significantly and I've like read a lot in that 10 years. So this is like a a grim dark science fiction fantasy. We're following Nick Snissa who used to be a Beldame. So, this is set in a world where there's been this longunning religious war. And in the country that Nyx is from, pretty much the men are sent off to war and the women are left behind running the country. And the Beldames are like government sanctioned assassins that track down deserters from the front and kill them. Um, usually by cutting off their head and bringing that in to collect the bounty. So, Nyx was a Belame. However, she kind of got on the wrong side of the law and ended up collecting on like some illegal bounties and getting into more like the darker side of things until in the first book, she's kind of pulled back into the politics of the world and this big conspiracy between the royalty of the country, the queen, and the Beldames. And also, there's these aliens, aliens that have turned up that are actually just other people. But because this planet has been so isolated for so long from the rest of humanity out in space, they consider these people to be aliens. And the aliens are also kind of like involved in this conspiracy and corruption around this religious war. And one thing I particularly liked in this series is that each book is kind of a significant amount of time apart. So you really get to see the progression of this political situation as it changes. And we're also following like people on different sides of this war really struggling with the situation and just that there is no right thing to do. Um there's also some shape shifters in there trying to fight for their rights because generally they are considered not really people and also like the technology of this world is bug based which really does lead to some disgusting scenes. Um, there's also like quite a lot of like I guess body mutilation and even when people are being healed, it's quite grim. So that's why I I say this book is grim dark. Also because all our characters are at least somewhat morally gray. The main character, Nick Snissa, is a disaster, but I love her. Okay, then at number nine, I have Migration by Steph Mataku. This is a New Zealand Mari author, and there is some kind of like Maui culture aspects to this story. This is the only YA novel, I'm pretty sure, that is on my favorite list, but I really enjoyed this. Even though I'm definitely not the target market, and I don't tend to enjoy YA much, I think this was really cool, and I actually think it had potential to be even more amazing. Like, if it had potentially been stretched out into a trilogy, I always feel like I want to make every book into a trilogy if it's like got a little bit more potential than what it realized. Maybe that's a me thing. So, in this book, we have this young woman, and she's kind of like a noble, but she goes against her family's wishes and joins the military. Uh, and in this military, there's a situation where they pair everyone up as an intuitive and a combatant. And the intuitives are able to develop the ability to like see several seconds or more into the future. And then they can like telepathically or like mentally bond with the combatant. and then basically give them the information they need to fight better because they can know what's going to happen next. And so they're training this ability. They're going through these different school trials as well as kind of this bigger dystopian thing that maybe messes with time a little bit uh is going on. I really enjoyed this. I think the characters were pretty welldeveloped for like a YA dystopian and like the abilities and the action scenes were pretty cool. I like how many times can I say it? I really enjoyed this. I'm surprised, but I really enjoyed it. Definitely if you're interested in a YA dystopian with a little bit of like Maui culture sprinkled in there, this is it. Then at number eight, we have Death of the Author by Nia Crohor. This I think was so ambitious. I don't know if it entirely pulled off everything it was attempting, but I do still really appreciate what it tried to do. And there are parts of the story that I really love. So, we're following this woman who is an author. Uh, her career is not going very well. Also, I think she just lost her teaching job, so like everything's going pretty badly. And also, one of the things that frustrated me with this is her family is just completely awful to her. She's actually a disabled woman, often using a wheelchair, and her family is just so unrealistic and awful to her all the time. who really did not like her family. But I can understand kind of the representation that Nidia Coror was trying to put forward that this is what family can be like, especially for a disabled person. So then anyway, this author goes away and she starts writing this book. Actually, the cool thing about this book is under the dust jacket, we have the book that the author is writing, Rusted Robots. So she writes this book and it's like wildly successful, maybe unrealistically so, but like she's from that point super famous. And that kind of leads her on several lifechanging adventures, experiences, not all of them good, but then so interspersed between the stories of the author, which is to be honest much more like a contemporary story. There are some sci-fi elements in terms of her utilizing certain technology, but mostly it's pretty much like a contemporary story. A lot of it focused on her relationship with her awful family. But we're also getting the story that she's written rusted robots. And that's a story of a future where there's now only robots, different kinds of robots. And the robots that are like humanoid are really looked down upon by the nonhumanoid robots. and we're following a particular robot kind of going on their own adventure. And the two stories do eventually come together in a really interesting way. I think it could have been better, but it is still a really cool idea. And she almost pulled it off. I don't think quite. And I'm I'm kind of sad that it's like buried in all the contemporary part of the story cuz I would have liked more of the sci-fi aspect, but still for everything this tried to do, definitely one of the best books I read this year. Then at number seven, we have The Pandemonium by Emma Carey. So the first book is Infinity Gate and the second book is Echo of Worlds. I've just had a weird memory of me dreaming about these books. That's odd. Anyway, this is another case where I really enjoyed aspects of this duogology and other bits not so much. But I still think the bits that I did love, I loved enough that it definitely deserves to be on this list. And I still look favorably on the series even if some parts were disappointing. So basically at the beginning of Infinity Gate, we are introduced to this scientist and she is working really hard at studying dark matter I think as kind of climate change and war and all the disasters of our world are kind of bringing about essentially the apocalypse, the end of the world. So she keeps going to work and basically ends up living at this university while everything kind of falls apart around her. But then she discovers multiverse travel, which potentially is the solution to everything because if you got multiverses, you don't have a problem with scarcity anymore, especially if like a lot of these multiveres are essentially empty worlds at this point. Anyway, she's off exploring that when she stumbles into the pandemon. So the pandem is this group of multiverses that are governed by a single governing body and they do not look fondly on people coming into their system. So they start tracking her down and from there she kind of goes on a big adventure along with her AI colleague also this other random guy that she picks up from another multiverse similar to our world but not quite the same. And also a random rabbit girl. Oh, and another AI creature because at the same time, the pandem has come across this machine civilization and that's kind of escalating into a a bigger conflict that our main characters kind of have to deal with primarily in the second book in the series. So, the thing with the series is I really love the beginning um when we're following the scientist. Then the middle of this book, we're following kind of this other guy that she'd met up with and that was okay. Then the final third of this was the rabbit girl, and I did like the general setup, but the pacing was really weird in that section. So, I was a little bit disappointed by the ending of this, and I don't think it lived up to everything the very beginning of this promised. And then the pacing problems continued into the second book. So, this one I was actually pretty disappointed in. So, I guess this doesn't belong on this top 10 list. Maybe only the first book in the Jewogy. But still, the way that this explores the multiverse and also a little bit how it explores AI was something I really enjoyed. So definitely one of my favorite books this year. Then at number six, we have the Earth Seed Jewy by Octavia E. Butler. So this is another dystopian. I said that Migration was the only YA book on this list and that is true, but Earth Seed to me sometimes read a little bit YA because it's told in diary format and the main character, at least in the beginning, is a teenage girl. So, Diary of a Teenage Girl, feels pretty YA, but it is true that some of it was pretty brutal, but I still think I would have got the most value out of this book reading it as a teenager. Anyway, these books are actually set in like 2025 to 2030ish. And even though this book series was written in the '9s, it feels very close to our actual reality. Like it's a dystopian version of it. But is it very much worse than our current dystopian? Not really. Um, but I also think part of the reason why Octavia Butler was able to kind of predict this future is that it's been bubbling away for a while. I think as well it is a very um American kind of dystopian, but maybe that's because so many of our dystopians are based on America. Or maybe it's also just what's happening in the world that makes me view it that way. Anyway, this is another one of these duogies where the experience throughout the series was kind of different. The first half of the first book, she's mainly just in this single gated community where things are very dangerous, but it feels somewhat controlled. And a lot of that part of the story just feels like a lot of family and community drama from a teenage girl perspective. And I was a teenage girl and I've done that enough. I don't want to go back there. So, I didn't necessarily love that even though I still loved a lot of the ideas. Then the second half of that book was much more like I always want to compare it to a a zombie apocalypse type novel because they're traveling at this point and even though there aren't zombies, there are people with serious drug problems and just a lot of really dangerous people out for themselves. So, it has that same kind of vibe. So, I wasn't necessarily in love with the first book even though I loved a lot of the ideas about dystopia and civilization breaking down. The second book I did think was better. In this one, we get a little bit of a perspective of the main character's daughter also looking back on the things that her mother has written in her journal. And in this, she's basically set up this new community. Oh, I haven't talked about the main thing in this duogy, which is that our main character is creating a religion as well. She has this thing called hypermpathy. So, when she sees someone get hurt, she feels that pain herself, which influences a lot of things that she does as well. So in the second book, she's setting up this community all based around this religion she's creating, but politically uh the dystopian is escalating and that causes a lot of trouble for them. Um it gets quite brutal the second book, but I think it also kind of went further into exploring how we like slide into a dystopian and perhaps how we might climb out again. So I I actually found a lot of the messages in this book very hopeful even when things were just getting worse. And I definitely think this is a book with a lot of value, especially in our current times, which is just so interesting given that she set the book in our current times. Then at number five, we have The Inheritance by Alona Andrews, who is one of my most favorite authors. And honestly, they already have a bunch of series where I'm waiting for them to continue. So, I had mixed feelings about them starting something new, but I know it was just meant to be like kind of something fun and on the side, and I ended up loving it. And now I just add that to the list of book series from them that I would like more of. Uh, so in this basically portals or gateways to another dimension start popping up and then these awful aliens come through. But what they discover is that basically when the gateways first open up, they enter into this cave system and there's like a period of weeks to months where the aliens aren't able to come through yet. So the humans are able to go in and close the gate down. What they also realize is that within this cave system, there are a lot of valuable resources. So behind the assault team, they're sending in these miners to try and gather the valuable resources. But at the same time as these gateways started appearing, humans also started developing different abilities. And the main character that we're following has the ability to like see things and identify them. Um, so basically when they go into the cave systems, different resources will be highlighted in her vision and if she looks at them, she can tell what they are, which obviously is very useful to help identify what the mining team should focus on. So this is a story where they go on a particular expedition and everything turns to and our main character ends up alone in these caves uh with the dog from the team and she's just trying to do whatever she can to get back to her children. Actually, I like that Alona Andrews, as they're getting older themselves, cuz Alona Andrews is a husband and wife writing duo. I feel like as they're getting older, they're aging up their characters, and I'm really appreciating that, especially because they're about the same age as me. So, I feel like that makes the characters just that extra level of relatableness. Uh, but also like pretty much everything by Alona Andrews, I just really love the way they mix action with humor with great character development and great world building and like a complex plot with really great characters that make intelligent decisions. So solidly good and even though I went into this with some hesitations, of course, of course I ended up loving it. Then at number four, we have the Rampart Trilogy by Emma Carey. So another Emma Carey series. I think I read the first book in 2024 and then continued books two and three in 2025 and I really loved it. Uh in this we are introduced to this young boy named Coley. Well, the story is framed as he's telling his story and this is in a future where the plants have basically taken over the planet. The trees and the plants are very dangerous and as a result, humans are mostly living in quite isolated villages. And in Koh's village, they do still have a little bit of remnant technology that they maybe don't entirely understand or what they do understand, they kind of misunderstand at the same time. And then when people in this village turn 16, they are tested to see if they can wake the technology. And if they do, they get to become part of this like ruling family. It's a little bit suspicious though because it seems like mostly this one family are the ones who wake the technology and a lot of the technology actually is still unwoken. They can't use it. So we're following Koh's journey as he basically learns a lot about this remnant technology and eventually goes out into the world and discovers what's going on there and eventually has a very big impact on the world. Uh, this is another series that has a little bit of an AI aspect because some of the technology that is left around the place is artificial intelligence and I really loved that part of the story. Like actually I went into this book series expecting a lot of marauding trees. There were some dangerous plants for sure, but a much bigger part of the story is the AI and like trying to find a better future for both AI and humanity. There are a few bits in this book series where maybe it takes a little bit of a tangent and takes a while to come back to things, but I love the characters. I love the journey and the audio book narration actually is great. I should say I actually recommend the audio book for this series because it's written uh kind of in a dialect. So this is a future where education isn't really a thing anymore and language has changed and Emma Kerry has kind of written that change in the language and I've really struggled to read that with my eyes but verbally or like in my ears no problem. So that's the way I recommend reading it for sure. Also the audioback narrator really goes for it in in performing certain characters and I I think they did a really great job of it. Then at number three, we have the outside trilogy by Adah Hoffman. Um, so starting with The Outside, then the Fallen, then the Infinite. I think that's the order. I'll put the pictures here anyway. Um, but so the outside is set in a world where there are now AI gods. And when people die, the AI gods will absorb their souls. So depending on what kind of a person you are will decide which AI god is interested in absorbing you. And usually humans will kind of focus on being someone that a particular AI god would want to absorb. So it's in the best interest of these AI gods for humans to become really great and they really encourage humans to be the best they can because they're going to absorb them, right? But also they don't want the humans getting too out of control. And we're following this young autistic woman as she is involved in this science experiment about new power systems that goes slightly wrong in the way that it involves a thing called the outside which is definitely messing with reality. The AI gods really not a fan of it. So they shut it down and they send in the angels where our main character kind of ends up working with these angels. Um, the angels are basically humans that have like higher bandwidth communication with the AI gods and also sometimes other physical enhancements and like quite a weird uh hierarchy that they kind of work under. I really enjoyed the angels and some of the twisted aspects of that. But so our main character is working with the angels to try and work out what went wrong with this experiment and track kind of the leader of the experiment down. But I guess that's mainly the first book. I really love the first book and I did like the rest of the series, but I was a little bit disappointed that the rest of the series didn't continue to explore this like AI god religion, which is what I love so much about the first one. It kind of moves into more of a story of activism and rebellion. Um, really focusing in on this group of neurodeivergent characters and how they're working to be heroes even while they still really struggle with just the basics of of being who they are. It's definitely a really interesting series and I'm so glad that I read it. Then at number two, we have guess what? Another series involving AI and that is the Imperial Raj trilogy by Anne Leki. So I think I read the first and second books, Ancillary Justice and Ancillary Sword in 2024. So then of course I finished off the original trilogy in 2025 by reading Ancillary Mercy. And then there are also a couple of spin-offs in the world uh provenence and translation state which kind of follow different characters on different worlds but in the same kind of bigger context. So the original trilogy we are following this person who used to be an AI spaceship but this is in a world where these AI spaceships basically can inhabit multiple bodies. So, we're getting basically this past story where our main character was an AI spaceship with a bunch of bodies. And that's such an interesting perspective to get where they can be in multiple places at the same time. And some scenes were just genius the way they dealt with that. Well, actually, I'm describing the first book because I think that's always the best thing to do with the series. So, we're getting their experience as this AI spaceship. the people that they're involved with are like colonizing the universe and we're getting the experience of this particular planet where the colonization process went completely off track. Then we're also getting their perspective 2,000 years in the future where they're now just a single body and kind of struggling with that experience and also they really want to get revenge for whatever happened in the past. So in book three I guess the simplest thing to say is they are still attempting to get revenge. Um, the later books are much less intense than the first book. Like almost kind of cozy. That's wrong. There's a lot of intensity still going on, but at the same time, it's very focused on like culture and understanding. I just really love this series and the different perspectives it gives. The spin-off books also kind of continue giving us further perspectives. I think my favorite thing going on in this world beyond the AI spaceships that inhabit multiple bodies is this particular alien race where they are so different. Their understanding of the world is so different. And I think and Leaky did such a wonderful job of like putting that different perspective into play as part of the plot. Like their whole view of reality is different and it's kind of amazing. So I love this series. If you want something that just like messes with identity and like everything you kind of generally accept as true in culture, like a lot of cultural exploration in this series, like it's so great. I love it. And also, if you get into this series in 2026, there's going to be a new release. And I kind of hope that Anaki will just keep exploring this world ongoing because there's so much potential in it. Then speaking of series that I really hope the author will come back to them, uh I also finished off the Lotomb series by Tamzo Mure at the start of the year. So I read Harrow the Ninth and Nona the Ninth which are both continuations from Gideon the Ninth. And there is supposed to be one more book in the series, Alto the Ninth, but we must be patient because that's your only option. Um but there's many rumors that this is coming soon and I remain hopeful at this point. Uh anyway, this is a series with necromancers in space. So, in the first book, we're following Gideon, who was an orphan on the 9inth house, each of the houses in this world being a different planet that specializes in like a different area of necromancy. Gideon really just wants to get the hell out of there, but she gets convinced to go along with Harrow, who is the head of her house, to this necromancy competition. The rules of the competition not particularly clear. The competition also does turn into a murder mystery. And then from there, the series gets even weirder. Like each book in this series is so different and like weird in its own way. So I think my favorite of the series so far is Harrow the second book where we're following Harrow as she tries to deal with the trauma of the first book and half of it's written in second person and it takes you a long time to even work out how that fits with what happened in the first book. We're learning a lot more about the necromancy and the difficulties that the necromancers are in and just the way that that whole book comes together in such a confusing way but ultimately so satisfying. It's it's just amazing. Then the third book, Nona the Ninth, which I also really love. We're following this young woman called Nona who doesn't really know who she is and she acts very childlike. She goes to school, she makes friends, she plays with the teacher's dog. She kind of just wants to go to the dairy and get a treat. She wants to go swimming in the ocean, but like the people who are taking care of her are like, "Be careful, Nona. Don't lose your temper." Because seems like she's also quite powerful. And at the same time, we're kind of learning more about this necromancy conflict that's going on. What's really interesting about this book is because we're getting Nona's perspective and her perspective of things is so different. But as the reader, having read the previous two books, you're able to put a lot more together than what Nona actually can. Honestly, it's such a different book, but so great. And I just I can't wait for Alto. I mean, I will wait, but I can't wait. So, those are the best science fiction books that I've read in the year of 2025. Definitely some of them are fantasy science fiction, maybe a lot of them, but isn't that always the case? Probably. Anyway, let me know what were the best science fiction books that you read in 2025. And also, of course, if you've read any of the books that I talked about in this video, I would love to chat with you about them down in the comments. Do subscribe if you'd like to see more of my bookish videos. Otherwise, thank you so much for watching. I hope that you are doing well and I [clears throat] will see you next time.
