[1] 12 Best Fantasy Books of 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xef45guh7zA

We've been struck by the trials of time, distance, and illness. But now we're in the same room again. Readers, reviewers, countrymen, lend us your ears. Thank you to all of our binder members. Thank you to the pit fighters, the first swords, and all of the bright stars. Truth and courage. Hello and welcome to the channel. Hopefully, you're going to enjoy what is coming as we are talking about our favorite fantasy books of 2025, but we don't want to spoil the suspense of the top 10 ranking. So, this is going to be in a random order. We've got five each. Nonable mention. We've got 12 books in total. Let's talk about our 12 favorite fantasy books of 2025. There's been some great ones in the mix. It was painful to cut some out, but here's the creme de la creme. Yeah. Basically, Will and I are students of hype and to to get the hype meter as high as humanly possible for the of course the masses that watch the brothers Gwyn on YouTube and also listen to us on Spotify as we are now on Spotify as well. So, thank you very much and the people that have kindly joined our binder which is our very secret VIP book club where it is run through our discord as well. We like to hype people up. We of course love to do a top 10. Usually we do a top 10 part one and part two because we just love to talk about as many books as physically possible, but we were disciplined, weren't we, Ed? We thought we'll do it one video, just a short one. We're also going to be doing our favorite historical books of 2025 and then the culmination, the top 10 of all genres totaled together, of course, in our usual two parts. But Ed, enough talking about the plans. Let's get into the actual books. Let's talk about books. So, one of my favorite fantasy books that I read this year was The Book of Fallen Leaves by As Tamaraki. And this is an orbit release that is actually not out until next year. You're showing off, Ed. I am showing off. This is me flexing my able to bag and arc muscles, which are getting bigger to be honest. Will, they're getting bigger. I'm putting some serious time, some dedication, getting the reps in, getting those sets up, adding a plate each week. And the book of fallen leaves when it came through in the post I was I was I think I was in the middle of three or four books and I decided to put them all down and binge this book because I had just finished Ghost of Yotay. So I was in that kind of samurai Japan mode and this is a feudal Japanese inspired fantasy book that follows multiple POVs. It is definitely inspired by Shogun, Game of Thrones, Princess Monoke. This is one of those rare books that when it says Game of Thrones meets Duh, it's actually deserved. It's genuinely accurate, which I actually don't remember the last time because I I don't trust publishers saying this meets this ever since I read The Rage of Dragons and it said Game of Thrones meets Gladiator. And I was like, what the hell are you actually talking about that? But anyway, the book of Fallen Leaves is just don't hold back, Ed. I won't. This is an incredible book. I I won't hold back with this because this deserves every accolade. I think this is going to be one of the biggest hits of 2026. The book of fall leaves. It follows multiple POVs. We have characters from all around society, different positions, different places. And as I said, it is kind of inspired by Shogun, inspired by Game of Thrones. So, there's politics, there's factions, there's countries at war at plenty. There are also um there are also characters who are infested with a god plague within them. There are characters who are associating with gods. There are characters who are assassins and princes and so many other things. It's brilliant. I love the variety of POVs. What ASAI did incredibly [snorts] well was have every single chess piece moving quickly, moving rapidly, and it felt so believable, and it built up these character arcs incredibly well. And by the ending, there are some action set pieces that literally had me mouth wide open, a gape, just in shock at what I was reading. And I think it's one of those books I was reading. I was just going, "Oh my god, oh my god, it's very visceral." It It was shocking me. Uh, and it was so much fun to read. It was one of my favorite reading experiences of the year. And I just cannot wait to see everyone's reactions when they read this. It sounds like a fantasy melting pot with a lot of what we love and then executed very well. And it has a very fresh environment with that feudal Japan setting which I love. And you know I love you know Studio Giblly and what you know reading a Princess Monokeesque book that was exciting to me. So yeah very nice Ed. Thank you. Monokei that's what I also need to watch. Princess Monoke is an incredible film. And Michael Jordan would agree with you. Well me and him do have lots of things in common. Least of all our love of Princess Monoke. He does love the Japanese dub and you do as well. I haven't actually watched it with the Japanese dub. So that is next on my list. very nice to be more like him. [snorts] First up for me is The Will of the Many. And no, not just because it has my name in. Of course, I'm not going out there. I'm not breaking new ground. The Will of the Many is one of the most discussed books of the year because of obviously the very uh eagerly awaited sequel of the year of the decade of the century. Will of the century. Oh, have you seen how many ratings it has on Goodreads? It is up 179,000. Oh, someone checked this morning. Yep. and Strength of the Few, of course, very eagerly awaited. Some incredible reviews for that. It's gone off very, very well. It's amazing to see kind of an epic fantasy book really break into the mainstream because epic fantasy is neglected after a 2-year weight as well. Exactly. I know. It's pretty incredible. And The Will of the Many, it I completely understand why it's so big. It is always a bit scary when you pick a book up that has so much anticipation, so much hype around it. That's probably why I delayed picking it up, but I finally caved in. I couldn't take the FOMO anymore. [clears throat] And The Will of the Many, it is an absolute ride. It is a roller coaster of twist, betrayals, revelations, and a lot of history to the world that I'm looking forward to discovering. And I think um some of it has faded from my mind in the last few months since I read it. I think when I first finished it, I thought this is going to be top five of the year. Probably not quite. It might still make the top 10. we will see in that video, but it is one that I really respect and I really enjoyed and I cannot wait to pick up the sequel. It really really just delivers a lot of what is excellent about fantasy and there's a training school trope in there as well which is done. I would eat that up all day every day. Exactly. I could read 20 training school tropes done slightly differently and I would love them all. It varies from author author. My favorite trope. Oh, it's up. I do also get what you mean about you first read it, you thought this is guaranteed top five place and then as time goes on it kind of because it's a book of all about like little shocks, little twists, little turns. I think by the time you you know you're 5 6 months down the line after having read it those don't quite have the same impact but the ending does have the impact and you know you remember the experience of being of reading a proper page turner and I don't think I've read too many page turners this year but I've got to talk about Dark Age by Pierce Brown which is my second pick one of my favorite fantasy books fantasy listed it is Pierce Brown himself has said that it is a fantasy book. Although it is in a space setting, it reads like a fantasy book. Like he said also did say that Dune is kind of firstly it's an ecology book which I do agree with but it's also a fant it reads like a fantasy book. You are ready for me to to prove you there, weren't you? But everyone let us know do you think it is science fiction or fantasy or sci fantasy? Which one does it fit into more? It's definitely not science friction, which is Matt Dineman's new term for romanty in sci, [laughter] which is hilarious. Anyway, back to the match at hand. Dark Age is Gates of Fire, but for a space fantasy opera. That is probably some pitch head, but even darker. Even darker in the name. Uh, it is one of, as we know, we mentioned the word visceral. It's probably the most visceral, gut punching book I've ever read. And I didn't think I would ever read a Pierce Brown book that topped Golden Sun. And then I cracked open the spine, which I do obviously, of uh of Dark Age, and it shocked me. Shocked me to my core. It was incredible. Wow. The first segment is the Battle of Mercury. And I don't remember the last battle I read that impacted me this much. It impacted me so much that I read the Battle of Mercury and I decided to go back to the beginning of the book and reread that first 120 pages again because of how good it was. And then when I finished Dark Age, I decided to buy Dark Age on audio and listen to The Battle of Mercury again. So Dark Age, it has this multi Yeah. Yeah. Obsession unlocked. Definitely. It has this multi-POV approach um which Pierce Brown kind of experimented with in Iron Gold and perfected in Dark Age because the way that he writes I actually watched an interview with him where he was saying at first in Iron Gold you can tell he's going by the George R. Martin model of this POV different POV different you know let's say you know Darrow Lzander Liria um Ephraim Darrow Lzander Liria Ephraim Dark Age is like Darrow Darrow Darrow Lzander Darrow Lzander and he's it's written in kind of sections in segments in set pieces and they kind of go together. You'll have a couple of characters who are, you know, nearby with each other, maybe in the same conflict, maybe in the same kind of environment. They'll have like four 5 6 7 8 9 10 chapters together. And then they you'll go to another segment with other characters. And the way that that is written, it has this unrelenting pace. It has this this tonality to it that is so impactful and evocative. And it is just one of the best reading experiences I've had all year. It is incredibly dark. The the battle of Mercury is as shocking a a fight, a set piece as you will ever read. And not for the faint of heart. Not for the faint of heart. No. I mean, you know how like Jerable Crombi is so brutal for close combat. Mhm. Pierce Brown is somehow so brutal for close combat as well as planetary warfare. Like on a on a whole new level. It's a hard task, isn't it? It is a hard task. And I think Steven Ericson is probably well known for doing these sprawling epic battles. Pierce Brown takes the crown. [laughter] Pierce Brown takes the crown. And you have declared war, my brother. No, I mean I love Steven Ericson's battles. I mean, you know, Gardens of the Moon, the sequence at the beginning of that. I mean, look at um Dead House Gates, you know, the Chain of Dogs, that whole section. Catillian's battle as well. They are fantastic. Uh, but I just think Pierce Brown has mastered that kind of epic Avataresque whole planet warfare. I love it. Do you? I love it. We couldn't tell. Yeah. Next up, I've got Jade Legacy by Fonda Lee, a series I've been meaning to read for years. I read Jade City, book one of the Green Bone Saga, late in 2024, and I've really enjoyed it. I didn't really understand the references to the Godfather. I thought just cuz it's kind of like, you know, mafia groups doesn't really make it godfather. But then book two and three, I really understand that family saga grows and that family dynamic and their kind of very different roles in the business really witnesses a lot of growth and that's where I see the Godfather kind of similarities begin to make themselves known. Yeah, Jade Legacy is that at its best. I think that this is Fonda Lee's writing at its most confident at its very greatest. There are some very bold choices such as this spans a long period of time, a few decades. So, you've got kind of the old guard leaving, you've got the new guard rising up, and you've got the ones that kind of we've grown up with becoming very experienced and veterans in a short period of time. And I think that in the hands of a different author in a different series that would have been very jarring and it would have seemed like um basically cheating you out of that journey with a character whereas Fondly just managed to do it in such a brilliant way. And I think that's because other than one central character I won't name because obviously a big part of this is not knowing who survives and dies because there are there are a lot of deaths in this series. It is brutal. There's one key character I really loved and the rest of them I liked, but I wouldn't say they took over each other. I liked them more as a cast. They're really solid across the entire group. And so that's what made it really strong, I think, that you could really follow each of them in their own environment. And I think that fondly really created intrigue fantastically. They had really unique journeys. I think each of the characters, everyone played a very different role, but also an important role within the family. Yes. And seeing I don't usually like books that that cover such a long period of time, but I think Legacy did a really good job. And there's a lot of explosions as well. Yeah. And you've got so many of the traits like the administrator is more important than the military person who wants to go and kill everyone. You've got that. You got the peace consiliary. Yeah. Exactly. You've got the heir who doesn't want to be the heir. You've got kind of another child who really wants to be the heir and they're they're annoyed that their sibling isn't great for the position they're in. You've got loads of these tropes, but they're done so things are prevalent in today's society as well. Really? [laughter] Oh dear. I wonder what you're talking about. Anyway, so I think that trope is not a dirty word and it is proven in Jade Legacy. This is quite divisive which I found very interesting because I would have thought that this would be most people's favorite and so Jade Legacy my favorite of the trilogy. I think that everything is just really well polished. There is no weakness in this story. There are great twists and turns and it ends on a very satisfactory very um kind of bittersweet way that felt really true to the story and very new as well. So, when you kind of look back on your time reading, you know, Jade, Jade Legacy, Jade War, Jade City, the Green Bone Saga, you're going to look back on it fondly. He's been waiting for that joke the whole time. Are you? Is that the last time you're going to be able to say it? Because I won't be talking about them in wrap-ups. No, because she has a book called The Contractor of ISO. I think I believe is coming out next year. We'll definitely be reading that. Although, I'm not as mad on cyberpunk. I'm not as mad on the kind of cyberpunk element, but I it does sound pretty cool. What do you think? I don't know. Have you not read the pre the premise? No, I haven't. Okay, I'll let you read it. I was just waiting for another funnly joke to come through, but Okay. No, no, I was waiting for trepidation. I shall I shall restrain myself. I'm I'm getting mature with each video. So, anyway, let's talk about David Rag. Probably the most underrated fantasy author since Mike Shackle in my opinion. And he is actually taller than anything I've ever seen. Some could say too tall. Some could say greedy. Very greedy. I mean, we're of course very tall. But but not quite as tall as D. Steal other people's hearts. I would never dream of taking growth from from from them and putting their growth upon me. I think that's what he's done. Anyway, let's talk about the content in the book. So, The Company of the Wolf by David Rag is book two of I believe it's called the Hunters Trilogy. The Hunter series is called the Tales of the Plains Trilogy. So, there is a massive western inspiration behind these books, but if you you're not a fan of westerns, I don't think it will affect your enjoyment of this series at all. So, The Hunters starts off as this kind of um Red Countryesque fantasy book. We have mercenaries. We have old veterans. We have a young girl who kind of has found family thrown upon her. And in book two, The Company of the Wolf, we are following two of our main characters from the first book as they are trying to find a better life for themselves. And eventually they stumble upon this village in the mountains and the village is under a little bit of trouble. There are a lo There is a local bandit warlord who is pressing them for food, for money, for weapons. Trouble in a fantasy book. And that's also giving me Magnificent Seven vibes. Well, actually, you should be saying it's giving you seven samurai vibes because that is where the trope originated from. And if you guys know me, which of course you should because because you just should, um, then you know that I am a sucker for that kind of, uh, these characters want to do this seven samuraiesque adventure and they want to help the village and they want to overcome the evil bandits and it is written with a lot more nuance than that. I think, you know, that that trope in film is done so brilliantly well with Magnificent Seven, the Seven Samurai. Um, and I think this book takes that obviously Dave Rag was very inspired by Seven Samurai, Magnificent Seven, that kind of that trope, but he took it in a very in a new direction whilst kind of paying homage to it. And it is fantastic. Dave Rag writes with this real ry sense of humor. there's like this black wit behind the characters. He has a real variety of characters as well and he's able to draw upon their experiences, their backgrounds, the secrets and motivations to really form compelling situations, relationships, dynamics, and then the set pieces as they grow and grow and grow. And of course, this book ends in a brilliant culmination of a battle against these evil bandits. And it is so so brilliant. And there is a real emotional depth I think to David Rag's writing. And it strikes the perfect balance of, you know, kind of British humor, great fantasy world building, dialogue that will have you laughing and even have you teary eyed occasionally. I know that as well. He's good. and then making this world feel so satisfying, making what the characters do feel so realistic. He's brilliant and I really really want to read a lot more by him and I just want to hear more people talking about David Rag to be honest because it fully deserves everyone talking about this series. It's so much fun. And I think people will get a lot out of it. And if if you have kind of a Joe Abocrombi hole like size Joe Abocrombi sized hole [laughter] in your life. Right. Then um Dave Rag could fill it. Nice. Yeah. Well well said. Thank you. Well said. Next next up I've got Blood of Bright Haven. Uh did you read this in 2025 as well? I did but it didn't it didn't quite make my top my top list unfortunately. But I I will join you with this. Yeah, we need more standalones in fantasy. And so, of course, as I've been saying that, I couldn't not pick up Blood Over Bright Haven. Thank you to Chris and Maz for finally making me just go into my bookshelf and actually pick it up and open the pages. It's a great mix of dark academia, of really interesting kind of anti-hero figures, of use of misinformation, and I think it's also a great example of two POVs shoved in a close proximity to each other who have who are basically the complete opposite of one another. I think some of that can be really jarring and feel a bit forced, but that was done so so well. I think that Mong has a really great knack for character and also for really building a world and building this sense of uh youth, naivity, and then epiphies of realizing the truth of seeing kind of the lies of society and peeling back those walls. I usually don't like hard magic systems. I can't think of another book that I love the hard magic system. I love books that have hard magic systems, but not because of the magic. Whereas this, I just so appreciate how the magic and its complexity [clears throat] is so integral to the story. It is part of the plot. And that's what really sometimes jars me about other magic systems is really doesn't affect the story. Whereas authors kind of create this really convoluted way of having things work, but it doesn't play into the plot. It just plays into a charact's power from the mystery. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it makes it science rather than magic. But Blood Over Bright Haven uses magic not just for, you know, power. It uses it for the culture as well as a type of propaganda, if you will. And I love the way that she explores that concept in a fantasy book. Yeah. And obviously looking at kind of a patriarchal society as well, Skiana is. So the university I think it's one every 10 years or might be 20 years a woman is allowed to take an exam to enter the higher echelons of the university. No woman has ever passed before. Oh the mage society. Yeah. Exactly. And so she is going for this exam. So there's huge responsibility on her shoulders and the investigation of the university of magic. It it it really feels like you're picking up breadcrumbs and learning the magic system because you need to. It's written really well. really smooth pros, great standout characters and some very powerful messages and an incredible ending. Yeah, that ending had me in shock. I I was devastated with what happened. But also, it's such a gutsy ending and I think ML Wong is I'm really excited to see what she does next because each book, both books that I've read by her have been so different, but they do retain this kind of this huge shock that she throws the reader. It's like you are dipping yourself or not dipping, falling into cold water with each kind of story beat that she includes and it it is a shock to the system. It's brilliant. And maybe it's unfair, but you always can naturally compare an author's new work to their previous work. I'd say Sword of Kigan has higher peaks, but this is consistently great from beginning to end. What are you going to choose? Well, in a duel. Oh, Sord of Ken has swords on the covers, so it would probably win the duel. [laughter] Well, they're the magic. Anyway, anyway, don't make me cheesed. I'm really happy because there are so many book twos on out of a trilogy uh on my list, which is beating the stigma, which is wonderful. Beating be, you know, Yeah. beating stigma one at a time. Exactly. Battering them down on the brother's Gwyn. The Blackfire Blade by James Logan is book two of the Last Legacy trilogy. And if you are a big fan of this kind of sword and sorcery, gritty in the street style of fantasy like the lies of Lamora, uh like Fafford and the Grey Mouser, then you are going to love this series. It's a great balance of humor, of tone, the tone that is kind of at times lightigh-hearted, at other times very emotional and very well the stakes are high and it is a rip roaring adventure. I would say these do read like adventure novels. They've got the great balance of fun, of enjoyment, of intensity, of set pieces, of fantastical elements, and also cinnamon buns. And you know, I think more cinnamon buns should be in fantasy to be honest. It would mean a lot to me personally if I didn't think I'd be hearing that today. No, I'd like to shock you as well. The Blackfire Blade is obviously Jo James Logan's second book. We follow the great trio, the great cast of characters as they are thrown into a new city with new with a new kind of culture with new morals and values and and new magic systems and purple fire which is great as well. I mean that cover I love purple is insane. It's really cool. I love to see a bit more purple. Yeah, exactly. Jeff Brown is a master. People seeing this are going to think you know what terrible reviewers. They're talking about cinnamon buns and I like this because it's got purple in it. Well, I these are my my personal reasons. You know what? We can only talk about what makes us tick. Exactly. And this turns me into a clock. Absolutely. The Blackfire Blade is one of my favorite fantasy books of the year. Its pacing is brilliant. It has this great relationship between the main trio. Uh Lucan and Flea have a brilliant dynamic between them that is always funny as well as this kind of this lone wolf and cub trope of you know older person looking out for that younger person. But it is kind of uh it's done differently by James Logan, but it does remind me of that Lucan can be a bit of a grumpy get sometimes and Flea can be a little bit overenthusiastic with her crossbow. So, I love that element to their relationship and their dynamics and I just cannot wait for book three. I'm sure it's going to be a belter. Very nice, Ed. Thank you. Now, on to a book that both of us chose and it is a behemoth. It is King Sorrow by Joe Hill. One of the highlights of my year has been reading this. And another highlight has been interviewing Joe Hill. Oh, Will, don't show off. Did I just say that? Oh my word. Isn't that crazy? It is crazy. Well, we we've read Joe Hill. We read King Sorry. We met him. Yeah. And then we interviewed him. Iris flicked a bracelet at him. Yep. And he returned it nicely. She doesn't know how lucky she is. I know. I've still I've framed the bracelet. [laughter] And then we interviewed him, which was absolutely crazy. So yeah, check out the interview in the link up there. But we are very lucky to have met quite a lot of amazing authors this year. And I don't think it, you know, biases us. It makes us want to pick their books up, but it doesn't change our opinion of their works. And King Sorry truly is just out of my words. It is incredible. [cough] It defies [clears throat] literature. It is genre bending, genre defying. It is a testament to what words can achieve. The emotions it's evoked, the journey it took me on, the tears it brought down my cheeks is just sensational. It's something that is just such a rare experience. We are lovers of books, obviously. Look at the shelves in the background. But still, even though we love reading on a regular basis, there are a few books, one or two a year, that take you to a land beyond. And King Sorrow was one of those books for me. It was quite a terrifying land as well, Will. It was. Yeah. So, Joe Hill's favorite character in in any any book is Smal the Terrible. Smal the Magnificent. Uh, and he decided to write his own version of Smalow. In this version of Smalow is an occult dragon who is able to be summoned by a group of six friends and he then decides each year one of those friends will choose one person uh it's around Easter isn't it that he will devour. Yes. And it goes on the cycle goes on for a very long time. And these friends you know they quickly have their answer. These two people who they absolutely hate who are causing them trouble. King Sorrow go and kill them go and eat them. So, you know, he does and he does it in a very brilliantly gruesome. What a scene. I I will never forget reading that scene. So intense. But then they kind of don't plan for the future because he does mean it. Every single year he wants a name from this group of someone to slay. I mean, we have crime, horror, fantasy, and more in this story that has got dragons, the supernatural, some other fantastical creatures, our legend, and more. It sounds like how can you fit that all together and not be wacky and Joe Hill but in a way that clicks. It's not jarring and uh I thought oh I wonder what other people think but everyone else seems to be loving it. And this is like even though it's 800 pages it really flies. There's a lot of very short chapters so it's really not as many words as it seems. It's only 360,000 words. It'll be fine but it's one of my top recommendations. It says download it. It's incredible. will take you on a journey and it will show you a reminder of what reading can achieve. This is a book that I feel like would re I would recommend it to everyone that is it's a book that everyone would get something out of and it's joined that list of there's not many books that I would recommend to literally any reader in the street that you know all right if you if you love reading or even if you don't this could be one a first book that you pick up and you absolutely eat into it but Joe Hill for you know somehow he has a troll in his book that does good readads reviews and it doesn't do very pleasant ones does it And it is just genius because it trolls people. It exactly. It trolls people. It's so funny. It has this real attachment to, you know, Anglo-Saxon history as well as dragon law mythology and so much more. There are references to Stephen King's books, Joe Hill's books, some of his favorite films as well. Uh, it is kind of a a gumball of influences that thing of things that Joe Hill loves and he's put them in a worldclass novel. Very nice. It's brilliant. There we go. Another book that is on both of our list is Empire of the Damned by Jay Kristoff. Book two of the Empire of the Vampire trilogy, which is now finished. Empire of the Dawn came out about a month ago. I'm very scared to read it. And here it is. And that is the official. That is Jay Kristoff being very kind to a horse as usual. Empire the Damned. So I read Empire the Vampire 2 years ago I believe and it was my favorite or second favorite book of the year. It's one of my favorites of all time. I think it's an incredible mashup of kind of previous vampire tropes with new realizations and new creations. Days Death, what a name. What an idea of the sun suddenly for a reason people do not know has become dimmer. And so that causes an ecological collapse. There are droughts that it causes uh crops to not grow. And as if things weren't bad enough, it means that vampires can now walk about in the day, even though they'll be a bit weaker than they are at night. And so that's pretty tough, isn't it? And so we're in a dark, gritty world. We've got training school tropes with the Silver Saints. It's a chronicler narrative of Gabrielle Deleon telling the story of his past with an interview with a vampire style. There are so many kind of inspirations that bleed into something that is utterly new. It, you know, it's kind of like Blade meets Blood Song meets Never Knight. Very nice. Meets meets Interview with a Vampire meets what else will a lot of different things really. So many different things. And it's a classic example of how you can take tropes and create something new. It's like Frankenstein and his monster. Yeah. Because the monster is not called Frankenstein. [snorts] People [laughter] empower the D Victor. Without spoiling the end of number one, you don't like my impression. Sorry. Completely ignore it. That was an incredible impersonation. I wonder if Jacob and Lord would be proud of that. I I I think he would. He probably does watch the brothers. Gwin, quickly. No, we're not going to talk about it further, but what would you give Frankenstein 1 to 10? What rating? 1 to 10. I would give it a solid 8.05. 05. That's very specific. Thank you. Slightly higher than eight, but slightly slightly lower than 8.1. There we go. Yeah, that that's usually how ratings work. Anyway, Empire the Vampire, the way that ends, it means that Empire the Damned has to be quite a different book. And so, I was a little bit, you know, a little bit worried about book two, especially nervous, but I'm starting a bit shaggy. You know what I mean? Especially when it goes from one POV to two POVs. I was like, whoa, whoa, whoa. In history, that hasn't gone well a few times. But almost unanimously everyone said it works brilliantly. Why do authors choose to change what makes things great and it's it is scary but Jay Kristoff sometimes you have to trust the author. We trust the Lord. Don't worry. We trust the Lord Jay Kristoff. And it he delivered with Empire the Damned. In a way this is a bit more intimate. I'd say there's a larger scale of I'd say there's some more terrifying intimate moment and there are still epic sequences but it's not as grand as Empire the Vampire even though the consequences are far more important in the grand scheme of things Empire the Damn just delivered on everything I wanted more of the world more of these characters new characters other vampire bloodlines because that's how kind of their vampire blood works each bloodline has different powers and so it delivered everything I wanted and more and it's an excellent sequel. Absolutely. It kind of it had it delivers this proper big bite and it really gets between the sheets, doesn't it? Well, and it's not a pain in the neck. It's not a pain in the neck at all. Empire of the Damned is one of my favorite books. And again, it's a book two of a fantasy trilogy. It is. We really are battering barriers, aren't we? Aware of the stigmas. What have we got next, Ted? I'm going to have to talk about it. Will, I'm really sorry. Everyone, buckle yourself in for at least 10 minutes. You might want to go, you know, put the kettle on gravity. You know what I'm going to talk about, guys? Yeah, you thought Dark Age was good. You need to read Lightbringer because that is probably the best book I've ever read in my whole entire life. Before we get into it, anyone who knows Ed knows that he is driven by obsessions, which are usually between I'd say that you know the sweet point for you, the sweet spot is two months per obsession [laughter] where you your entire personality revolves around something [clears throat] and you are halfway through your Pierce Brown obsession. Now, I think all your obsessions then become long-term passions, but there's two months where that is all you were talking about. My passion is Pierce Brown. What have [laughter] you been banned from saying at home? Sades banned me from talking about Pier Brown because it's constant. And also, I've been hiding the books that she's physically reading and her Kindle until she says I'll read Red Rising. So, uh, yeah. Hopefully, she doesn't watch this cuz she should know what's coming her way this Christmas. [clears throat] But Ed, it's a nice laugh. [laughter] Anyway, that was a strange laugh. Now, you are allowed to talk about Lightbringer. Fine. Please enable me. Enable me, Will. So, Lightbringer is um I mean, I don't know why I want to talk about it because this is the book that made me cry probably the most since I read Ruin. Which ruined you? Which ruined me? And I think when I read Ruin, I was 16. Papa was very proud of making me cry there. Thank you. Yeah. Uh well, no, not thank you. Um I was weak. No, [snorts] it is Ruin is an incredible book and it really did ruin me. Um, but Lightbringer also ruined me. And what I love about Lightbringer is it definitely changes the tone from Dark Age because I don't think you could read six books of the tone that Dark Age has. That is very unique. And the the title Dark Age is appropriate in what ways in like how dark it is, how brutally will it's almost as dark as Blood Meridian, but imagine you know it's also 750 pages. Uh it is absolute savagery. So Lightbringer is I imagine there's some very dark moments and bru brutal moments but there is there is hope because some some characters come back together and you know I actually hate that in a in a penultimate book of lust but when characters start getting back together [laughter] cuz you're like you can't even enjoy the moment because you're like I know why this is happening cuz something terrible is about to unfold. It's a book that I will probably reread it, but you know, like King Kong, I'll rewatch King Kong until the second before he gets captured by Jack Black, which that film actually ruined Jack Black for me for about 10 years because School of Rock was my favorite film. Uh, no, his name isn't Jack Black in it, but I don't know what his name is in it. His name is nasty, horrible But anyway, um, Lightbringer is like that for me. I will read it up until King Kong getting captured basically. Uh I will reread it and reread it. This book to of course it had that emotional element which has been rare uh for me to to read this year to find a book that has really brought this emotional spark out of me. Uh but Lightbringer did it. And what I love reading about is found family is brotherhood. And this book really hit the nail on the head for me. And also Pierce Brown had such a brilliant way of writing fatherhood which what are you laughing about? King Kong the passion you said [laughter] it. [snorts] Oh seriously that moment that King Kong gets taken I know it's horrible is one of the worst parts of that film is not spoken about enough. So Papa Gwyn took Ed to watch King Kong at the cinema. That's probably what 10 when King Kong gets to the top of the Empire State Building. Apparently Ed looked at Papa Gwen and he said, "That plane's gonna get it." And Papa Gwen was like, "It [laughter] got that plane got the dub." In the end, it got the W. And you didn't You hid yourself in the room for days. I didn't talk to dad Papa Gwen for a week. I just called him Dada. I called him his real name on the channel. His real name. His name His name's His name on the channel. [laughter] Yeah. So, um, so I didn't talk to Papa Gwyn for a long time, but at least a week. I didn't eat for a while. So, is it the same that you're not going to talk to Pierce Brown for a week? Yeah, I'm glad I didn't meet Pierce Brown after I read Lightbringer. I think I said in a video I recently recorded that if I did meet him, I probably would have cut his hair off. Wow, that's quite a unique threat. Yeah, like Samson, he'd lose all of his power. Wow. Nice. I thought it through. Nice. And this is why I'm banned about talking about Pierce Brown at home. Yeah. Should we talk about a different book? Uh, you're done with Lightbringer? I will never be done with light brigger but I don't want to waffle if you could pick one strength what is it every 750 pages no um had that that had that emotional spark for me emotional spark and not just through things that you that probably would typically get people weeping there are there are moments of just such sublime writing in terms of character and how characters how they get let I know. It's tough. I know. Next up, I've got Gardens of the Moon by Steven Ericson, book one of Malazen. So, I was a bit scared, you know, starting this journey. And I've heard, you know, Guards of the Moon, you know, it's it's not one of the best, but, you know, you got to push through it. And I was like, okay. And then, holy moly, this was incredible. Two of the greatest scenes I've ever read. And they were like dinner scenes of a group of characters who you're in their minds. You see their motivations. the political machinerations brewing in the background and then they all meet and you just really feel the weight of the moment. There are repercussions that will last the rest of the book because of this scene and you can feel that tension. There aren't many authors who do that kind of you know converging of POVs as well as Steven Ericson. Yeah. And that's what sadly was missing for me in Dead House Gates. Oh dear. I really respect which has been unsubed at least 50 times. I really respect, you know, the epic battle sequences and that that incredible segment. Yeah. But I wasn't invested in the consequences. Oh, well. Whereas here, I was that was the difference. Not only was it so well written, but the consequences were so apparent and I just absolutely loved that. And to have that in a book one as well is just incredible. It's what makes the events in Game of Thrones so incredible. That is the example. In a battle, even if you hate the leader of one, you might want them to win because you think, "Oh, that moves, you know, the chess pieces this way, which allows Jon Snore to do a bit better." You want it to pave the way for the people you love. Even though you're on both sides, there are such severe repercussions for the political landscape. Whereas, maybe it just went over my head, but I didn't understand it in Dead House Gates. I personally I would never let anything go over my head. I would Your reflexes are too fast. I would catch it. Yeah, Drax. Anyway, Garden Blood of the Moon. That's why it's up there for me. It is just epic fantasy at its best. Really just giving in to the fantasy love. You can feel the passion, the history, the lore. I'm looking forward to carrying on with this series. Even though I didn't click as much of book two, I'm looking forward to picking up Memories of Ice. Yeah, I do understand what you mean. I did really enjoy Guns of the Moon. did probably prefer Dead House Gates overall, but actually not for the typical reasons that people usually give with Dead House Gates cuz my favorite character was Fellison, who a lot of people hate on a lot of [laughter] people reading reading people's comments after I finished it. Everyone was like, I literally hate this woman so much and I hate her POV, but I just found her so compelling to read. Uh, and a lot of bad happens in that book. But, um, yeah, Chain of Dogs, pretty good. pretty good, but it doesn't have that emotional weight for me. And you know, a lot of people say it's their favorite segment. Um, but it just it was a shock, but it it was built up very well. Yeah. And I respect how it was written. But is it as good a shock as The Red Wedding? No. Because that that has so many consequences. And that leads me to talk about my next book, my final book of the video, which is A Storm of Swords by George RR Martin, which is quite possibly the best fantasy book ever written. It is crafted so perfectly and I don't know if anything can ever top that. Will it's interesting because the first time we read A Song of Ice and Fire, we both thought Clash of Kings was the best and we were like, God, we're against the tide here. Going to have to band together and now you've abandoned me. I have abandoned you. I'm sorry. I I was so invested in every single POV. I think every chapter was so important. There are there are you know the great I love to read the great joys. I love to read the great joys and uh just that chapter is so brilliant. But I love I loved everything in King's Landing. Tyrion is amazing in a Clash of Kings and I think that's the that's his book. That's his book that he stands out. You know, Game of Thrones is Ned's book. Yeah. Um A Clash of Kings is Tyrion's and I think A Storm of Swords is Catelyn's. Mhm. Catelyn is one of my favorite characters. She's probably my second favorite character in A Song of Ice and Fire after Jamie. And also, A Storm of Swords is where Jamie has that. Oh, yeah. He has his segment coming in. And I just think his writing that he is George R. Martin's most successful character because he gets across so much of what makes Westeros unique and powerful. And I think I think Stormurs had those set pieces as well for me that just delivered. So, well, h I do probably prefer I probably prefer the trial in the show. Yeah. But I did prefer and I prefer the duel. I think Oberin Martell as Pedro Pascal. Yeah. Or Pedro Pascal as Oberin Martell was is the only thing that makes the show be that bit. Yeah. He's the only thing that is better in the show than the book in my opinion. the structure as well as in the book if I remember rightly the trials over a week or quite a few days. Yeah, it's longer than in the show it's a few really pivotal scenes which just really two or three intense scenes and it yeah that was more effective but you know also think of how it ends with you know with Tyrion doing some crazy stuff as well. I won't get spoilers but uh it's just brilliant and I'm so glad that I loved it as well. I do think A Feast for Crows could easily have be have joined this list cuz it's my probably my second favorite. But I think a Storm Sauce just has a little bit more sauce. A little bit more sauce. Which sauce though, Ed? Uh, I would probably say a It's got to be some kind of Preise, hasn't it? Perry Perry sauce mixed with mayonnaise. Nice. Yeah. Nando. Last book for the video is Daughter of the Other World by Shaunet Lawless. This is Goulong era 2. Gailong. Wait a minute. Will, you're putting this on a fantasy list. You told me off for putting Red Rising. Well, I didn't tell you off. I probed. I asked. Okay. I asked. Probing. I just wanted to see what your argument for it was. I didn't say I agree or disagree. So, would you put this on fantasy over historical fiction? Yes. Why? Because it's got mythology and fantasy. Okay. And that is standing against history. And what I'd say so it's basically 2-1. And I'd say that more than the first trilogy, the storyline rests a lot more on the fantastical elements in this book. Yeah. Well, it is called Daughter of the Otherworld. Exactly. And there are some sequences where in the first series, so here we've got a lot of kind of the mythological groups. Yeah. Interacting with people who don't know about magic, but then you have got a lot of them on their own. You don't have as much of that in the first series other than in the beginning of book one. Yeah. So, I really think that there is a huge kind of um weight on learning magic, on furthering magical power that was not in the first series. And I love how we get more lore and more history in Daughter of the Otherworld. It is just I think this is Shawn Loris's writing at its best. It is very clean and sharp, but then also it doesn't go to such an extent of that that it deprivives us of character work. I think it's a really fine line to keep pace going uh whilst still allowing your characters to grow. I think this is excellent and Shauna Lawless just blows me away every single time. I need book two already. It's incredible. And Shauna Lawless, I think, is doing everything right in the in the writing community. She's got nollas coming out of her ears. She's got um nollas even being put into one collection as well, one book, which is brilliant. She's got multiple eras now of her work. Is she the new Brandon Sanderson but better? Maybe. Maybe cuz she does tow that historical line as well. And I'd love to see more and more people talking about Sha Lawless. I think I think she is she our most re most picked up recommended author or she second. One was Manda Scott. Yeah. Number two, that makes me happy was Shauna Lawless. And number three is LD Harper. Wow, what a trio. was Papa Gwyn. We got people to pick up Papa Gwyn who nice. Anyway, there we go. They are our favorite fantasy books of the year, not ranked, as we will soon be talking about our favorite historic books of 2025 and then following that up with a ranking. So, next week, yeah, will be the top 10. And we'll have, you know, it's that time of year. We're going to have a lot of those videos out, isn't it? Top 10 of the year, favorite books. We love it. Uh or most anticipated books as well. I will also be doing my very controversial um ranking every book I read last year. I got distraed last year. I put Akatar above Way of Kings. I mean, what do you expect? In hindsight, maybe that was a bit of a silly move, but I've got um you know, I speak from the heart really, don't I will? When I saw that the first comment about it, I was like in so it begins. So it begins. And then by the end I was like faded in at the pelenor fields and my YouTube is broken. [laughter] So Ed will be doing that. Let us know what yearly wrap-ups or kind of looking into the future year. What type of videos you love because we're doing a few of them because we're very excited to play the next year back on the last year of books. Most excitingly award show season is returning. I cannot wait. It's going to be great. It's going to be great. So, if you have any uh any ideas for any categories, let us know in the comments below. Thank you so much for watching. Truth and courage. Truth and courage. The brothers Gwyn. is about this coin.
