[1] Top 10 Backlist Science Fiction I Read in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQksETi43O0

Today I'm here to talk about the best backlist science fiction that I've read this year. And by backlist I mean books published before 2025. Now before I get started I recognize it is early in the year. I like to do these backlist videos a little bit early and then do my front list or new release titles closer to December. So it's just what I do. It's the only way I get all my filming done. And if that all sounds good, let's get started. First number 10. Let's start with a little bit of a cheat because it's my video and I can do what I like. So, the first book I want to talk about is The Road by Cormick McCarthy, which is a cheat just because a lot of people are going to argue in the comments, and I recognize why that it's not really a science fiction book. It technically has a post-apocalyptic background to the story, but it's much more of a literary tale. So, it is a story of a father and son walking down this road at what appears to be the end of the world. It is a beautiful character-based story and it's one I held off reading for a really long time because I kind of knew or thought it was going to be quite depressing. And while it definitely deals with difficult subject matter, it is also a beautiful story about humanity. It is a kind of story that could be again technically called science fiction, but really I think that that label is too small for such a large book with such an important story that again should be read by everyone regardless of what genre you normally prefer. It's a short book. It's a fast read and definitely a memorable one. Highly recommend if you were like me and have held off reading this modern classic. Do not hold off any longer. It's absolutely worth it and so worth your time. Then at number nine, we have Permutation City by Greg Egan. This is an Australianbased author who writes really, really hard science fiction stories that I have loved but have also confused me and really at times made me feel very dumb. This is the book I read by him this year and I really enjoyed it. I believe it's his most palatable or at least the book that is most digestible from those like us that don't have a university level understanding of a lot of these science and different topics that are addressed within these stories. The basic premise is that we follow a man who is making copies of his consciousness. But that only scrapes the surface. And again, every time I try to give a proper synopsis of one of his books, I clearly embarrass myself. So, just say that if you're looking for a book that will delight you, push you towards ideas that perhaps you haven't even thought about before, this is a great one to start with his work and I highly recommend. Then at number eight, we have The Snow Queen by Joan Deish. And this is one I've wanted to read for quite a while. I finally got to this year thanks to my good friend Whitney. So, thank you again. And with this story, it is set on this planet that has been colonized for years. And it's one that really follows again the colonial journey. It is one that very much feels of its time when it's written. And I think it just has a quality that feels almost very comforting and cozy while it still has very much some darker aspects to the story. It's one I just found that I just sunk into. And again, it's a harder title to get for a lot of us. It might not be in your library. Wish it wasn't in mine. And I really spent a lot of time wondering if this book was worth checking out, worth hunting down. And the answer is yes. So, thank you so much again to Whitney for getting this book in my hands because it definitely was a favorite of the year. Then at number seven, we have Blue Earth Remembered by Alistister Reynolds. I feel like this is one of his more underhyped books or at least one that doesn't get as much discussion online. And this is one that is a generational space story that starts from the perspective of the main descendants of the story coming from the African nations of that continent. And so, the story follows them through the years as they move into space travel. It's one that very much gave me similar vibes to the Marvel world of Wakanda. I do wonder if there was inspiration tied in between those media and stories in terms of an engaging story that very much felt like it had a lot of heart to it. Really character-based while still having that technological advancement throughout the way. I felt like it was just a really good story about family, about people, about growth. And I end up really enjoying it. So, it's actually I think my favorite of his books, which is I think a very unpopular opinion, but again, in terms of having something where the characters worked for me, which is often something that doesn't necessarily work entirely when it comes to Alistister Reynolds and my personal taste, this one was definitely a win. Then at number six, we have Aurora by Kim Stanley Robinson. And this is another generational space story where it primarily centers around a young girl, Freya, who is existing within this community. And we follow her. she starts to travel and see different aspects of this world that she exists within. It's one that exists on so many levels. It's a coming of age story, a loss of innocence. It's really a conversation about the challenges and problems that come up in generational space systems. And so, there's that addressed and just lots of different layers going on. I thought it was very interesting and had a lot to say. So, it is one that I really enjoyed. I recognize it's not for everyone. I did as a buddy read and some people enjoyed this one more than others. But obviously I'm talking from my perspective and I thought it was really enjoyable. Maybe not my favorite Kim Stanley Robinson, but that's only because so many of his books have become all-time favorites. This is still a solid pick for the year of 2025. Now breaking into the top five, we have The Heart Goes Last by Margaret Atwood. Because of course, I can barely get through one of these videos without recommending one of her books. As always, her books kind of lean into more of the speculative fiction as she likes to label herself. And so it's not as heavy in the science fiction elements as some of the other books on this list. But in the story, it is set in a near future that feels very reminiscent of the present day where we have a lot of economic decline. We follow the story primarily from the perspective of this couple who get the opportunity to live within the social community. And of course, once they are there, there are all the restrictions that come with it. This book has so much commentary on so many different things going on. I mentioned before that compared to other books, I feel like the pros is not as polished or as perhaps uplifted as you see at other places. But in terms of an engaging story that again feels oh so possible, oh so real, and feels like we're almost already there. If you love her take on dystopians and kind of the future of our world in a negative, depressing light, I think she does it so well. And again, I love her stories. I recommend them over and over again, and I'm so glad I finally read this one this year. Then at number four, we have The Hazards of Time Travel by Joyce Carol Oats. And this is a science fiction story with darker elements where we follow a young girl who is living in an authoritarian government. And in this world, it feels very reminiscent of a lot of the parts of our world that we're actually seeing come to fruition today. So, it feels like one of those near future stories that is feeling a little bit perhaps more plausible than when it was even written. And it's one that again very much reminds me of Margaret Atwood at her best. So, if you're looking for another author who's doing something similar, kind of that call to the future that again is definitely playing with different fictional elements but pulling from things that feel a little bit more possible. I love this one. It has surprisingly low ratings on Goodreads, so maybe I'm in the minority here, but I really liked it. So, go into it with your own expectations, but just know if you share my really niche taste and what I love and you're looking for something that is very politically fueled and don't mind that, I recommend this one. I thought it was very powerful and definitely has stuck with me this year. And editing Rachel coming back because apparently I forgot to include Gnomomen by Nick Harkaway, which is one of my favorite books of the year. Obviously making this list and that is a dystopian book said in a future where supposedly there's a technology to allow full transparency. Everyone's thoughts and consciousness are available to be seen. And so supposedly it's this more utopian society where everything is out in the open. However, even in that scenario, there is someone who mysteriously dies in government custody. So perhaps the transparency is not as transparent as it appears to be. This is one that I love largely because of my political leanings this year of just really enjoying a lot of dystopian fiction that dives into authoritarian governments and various other nearworld scenarios. This one is long. It has a very distinct narrative style that can almost feel like a stream of consciousness in places where it's just flying through. Very messy, but in a way that works so well. I definitely want to read more by this author because while this book seemed out of my wheelhouse, I ended up adoring it and definitely want to read more by him. So, highly recommend this one. Again, I think it's one that's not for everyone, but if you're open for a really long book and again you love something politically driven, this is one that I personally loved and I think some of you will enjoy as well. Then at the number two spot, we have Madness Season by CS Freriedman. And just to be clear, this book easily could have been the number one spot if it hadn't been for the book I'm just about to talk about. But this one here is set in a future where humanity has been conquered by a reptilian alien creature. And this has been going on for years. Humanity has very much lost their will to fight and rebel and really have become very lethargic. And so we follow the story is kind of this new hope of someone pushing against the status quo. This is a book while it was written several years ago, feels just as relevant today, it is great on multiple levels. If you're just looking for a science fiction story with some kind of horror and thriller and suspense moments in it, you get all of that. And I really think again there's a lot more going on here really showing again what happens when humanity loses our desire or our will to fight and to push for what we see is right and just again falls into that lethargic nature. And so I found this book fantastic on multiple levels. Again, I almost could put in the number one spot, but the other book just has a little bit more of an emotional connection for me, but this book is fantastic. Highly recommend and I definitely want to reread it basically right now as I talk about it. I could reread it at this moment because I am dying to dive back into the story and reexperience it all again. And then at the number one spot, we have Spin by Robert Charles Wilson. And this again was technically a reread for the year, which I normally don't allow myself to count, but when I first read this book, I did not appreciate it. I don't know what was wrong with past Rachel, but this book was fantastic upon reread. I love it. It is a coming of age story following three adolescents. At the beginning of the story, and this is all in the setup, the stars go dark. There's something that's happening in the sky, and the world has to adjust based off of the new reality. And so, we follow the characters again when they start off very young, and as they get older, there is back and forth of how their relationships grow. Some have more privilege, more advantage in their lives. And again, this is all very much with a backdrop of the larger story of what is happening and how the world had to change based off of what actually is happening that has caused the stars to disappear. I love this one on multiple levels. For me, it hit the number one spot just because it has such a good emotional pull. If you want to have a story that's again about growing up, about heartbreak, about seeing your peer sometimes excel past you and really feeling like you're being left behind and all the different conversations about love that is lost or desire or feelings and different things that aren't necessarily reciprocated. It hits on all those levels and still has some fantastic hard science fiction moments to the story. Those aspects again of how the world is adjusting to the reality are so fascinating and I could just read them and gobble them up over and over again. Highly recommend this book. I thought it was just about perfect, which I don't say too often about books. So, that's it for this video here. I'd love to know the books I talked about. Which ones are you planning on checking out for yourself? And of course, I would love to hear what is your favorite backless science fiction book that you read. Again, meaning a science fiction book published before 2025. I will again be coming back with more of these videos and talking about my favorite new releases closer to December. So, if you haven't yet, please do stick around, subscribe, hit the little notification bell so you don't miss a video from me. If you enjoyed this video, please give me a thumbs up, drop a comment, even just an emoji like a spaceship lets me know you're here. Otherwise, I'll talk to you again soon. Okay, bye-bye. [Music] [Music]
