[1] Brand New Sci-Fi Books You NEED to Know About - May to August 2026 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HXIGgDRFHpA

Hi folks, welcome. It's time to take a look at some new science fiction that'll be hitting our shelves imminently. Um we're going to start from around the beginning of May and cover June, July, and August. And then we'll look at the back end of the year in the next video around September time. First out the gate is um which was released on the 5th um of May, so it's been out uh a couple of weeks now, is The Last Contract of Isako by Fonda Lee, who I think Fonda Lee is more commonly a um fantasy author. And the strap line for this one is live by the code, die by the knife. Uh Isako is a legendary swordswoman, but every legend, it says here, must come to an end. And when her long-time client unexpectedly retires, she plans to follow, to walk out into the frozen wasteland of their planet with her head held high and her family enriched by her death. But when she's offered But when she's offered a final mission, she can't refuse, especially when she realizes who lies at the center of it, Marten, her last and worst apprentice, who somehow made his way to the top as she's thrust into a world of corporate espionage, no less, and shadowy secrets. What she uncovers could forever change humanity's existence among the stars. Uh The Last Contract of Isako is epic science fiction like only Fonda Lee can write it. Set in a world where money trumps loyalty, the elite have the power to extend life or end it. And one woman in the twilight of her calling must decide what's ultimately worth living or dying for. The release dates that I'm talking about here, by the way, are UK release dates. So if you're not in the UK, then you need to check your local booksellers to find out when uh they release it in your area. On the 16th of May um in at least in ebook and audiobook, but not yet the physical copy, it seems, at least here in the UK, uh is Platform Decay, which is the eighth of the Murderbot series. And actually there's a few uh continuations of series uh coming this month uh by Martha Wells, of course. There's not much in the way of blurb, actually. Um so having someone else support your bad decisions feels kind of good. Having volunteered to run a rescue mission, Murderbot realizes that it will have to spend significant time with a bunch of humans that it doesn't know, including human children. I don't want to sympathize. This may well call for eye contact. Emotion check. Alpha it says here. So, I I've I've only read the first one and I'm feel like I'm probably missing out at least for some of them. I I gather the novellas are much stronger than there's one I think one long novel length book which which generally speaking gets less good write-ups than than the novellas. Which are pretty good palate cleanser judging by my experience in the first one. So, I should read more. So, on the 12th of May which is a week or two back by the time this video comes out is Radiant Star by Ann Leckie author of course of the Imperial Radch books starting with Ancillary Ancillary Justice. So, space opera's sharpest mind it says here returns to the world of the Imperial Radch in this brilliant standalone from award-winning author Ann Leckie. The temporal location of the Radiant Star has always been a source of both conflict and hope for the people of Uauea. [laughter] That's a big an unpronounceable word containing only vowels. However, the Imperial Radch see it as only an inconvenience and antiquated religious site soon to be absorbed into their own superior culture. But local politics is complicated and the Radch have made a final concession. One last man will be allowed to join the mummified bodies in the temporal location to become a living saint. But this decision will ripple out to affect every part of the city amidst the slowly worsening food shortage, riots and a communication blackout from the rest of the Radch Empire. A religious savant will entertain visions of his own sainthood. A socialite will discover her comfortable life upended and a young man sold into servitude will find unlikely escape. So, once again that sounds more like a fancy setting than a science fiction one. But you know, obviously there are the Radch and presumably a spaceship or two. Perhaps some embodiments of said spaceships to boot. So, we'll see. Also on the 12th which seems to be a big day for book releases in May is Jeff Noon's a new book Moon over Brennus. And the blurb for that says, "The dust tells the story. 1968 Lancashire, which is in the north of England for those of you in the US. It is Joe Sutter's last summer before going to the secondary school. His world is like ours, but beyond and beside what we know is griot, a vast swirling rainbow of many colored dust. And it settles on the dead, it sways cities and fields. And Joe is one of the few who have the gift of always being able to see it, but no one knows what griot is. Is it the trillion-eyed god, the history of everything, told grain by grain, prophecy, or the magic of creativity? Joe can't know. All he wants to do is draw comics and listen to music. Then one day after climbing up to the ancient tower on Brendel Hill, he meets an old writer of pulp science fiction books who is determined to pass on the power and joy of telling stories. And everything changes. Decades later, Joe is a successful SF novelist, and the time has come to tell his story not only of how he became a writer, but also how the secrets of the dust were revealed to him one grain at a time. So that sounds a little bit semi also biographical. Um it um I'm detecting hints of that. So you can tell me what you think. And then I'm going to cheat a bit cuz this is not a new release. It's a re-release. In this case, and I think these are only available in the US. So if you're in the UK, it's kind of tough tits really. But again on the 12th is David Starr, Space Ranger, which is the first of the Lucky Starr series [clears throat] by Isaac Asimov, which was published about a million years ago. But the new there's a new hardback edition of it and it seems that they're going to publish them approximately once a month over the next few months. So after 200 citizens are fatally poisoned by produce from Mars, David Lucky Starr, Space Ranger, is sent undercover to investigate. And these were young adult novels as I recall, or juveniles as they were known as back in the day. So David Starr, Space Ranger, is the first book in the Lucky Starr series by Isaac Asimov. David reached for the sick man, lifting him as though he were a rag doll. Artificial respiration was useless. The Space Ranger had no illusion as to the possibility of recovery. He knew the symptoms. There had been many such cases lately. The sudden flushing, the loss of voice and breath, the hopeless minutes fight for life, and then the end. He turned to the trembling restaurant manager and identified himself. My name is David Starr. I am a member of the Council of Science. Those were the days. What was the dead man eating before he collapsed? Stewed mar plums, the manager replied wringing his hands in anguish. Nothing like this has ever happened here before. Just the same, you had better eliminate mar plums from the menu, David said. Extraterrestrial delicacies had laid claim to yet another victim. Well, that all sounds rather silly. I I have backs on my shelves of those, but I haven't yet read them. I bought them mainly for the cover art if I'm completely honest. So, I don't know that sounds a bit silly. I'm not sure why they picked that particular Asimov to reissue, but the hardbacks do look quite nice. I'll put the cover on the screen. Also on the 12th is Long London, which is the sequel to The Great When by Alan Moore, he of the Watchmen and other graphic novels, of course. So, this is a regular book as far as I can tell. In the it's not a graphic novel. The year is 1949, the city is London, and amidst the smog of the capital is Dennis Knuckleyard, a hapless 18-year-old employed by a second-hand bookshop. One day on an errand to acquire books for sale, Dennis discovers a novel that simply doesn't exist. It's a fictitious book, a figment from another novel, and yet it's physically there in his hand. How? Dennis has stumbled on a book from The Great When, a magical version of London beyond time and space where reality blurs with fiction and concepts such as crime and poetry are incarnated as wondrous terrible things. But this other magical London must remain a secret. If Dennis cannot find a way to return this book to where it belongs, then he risks bizarre and disastrous repercussions such as his body being turned inside out or worse. Sounds nasty. So, begins a journey delving deep into the city's occult underbelly and tarrying with an eccentric cast of sorcerers, gangsters, and murderers. Some from legend, some all too real, and all with plans of their own. And soon Dennis finds himself at the center of an explosive series of events that may alter and endanger both Londons forever. I've not read any Alan Moore, and I've not even read the Watchmen. So, the first book was out a year or two back. So, if you read that, you can let us know what you think and if you're going to go on and read the second. The next book is the first of what I think will be a series of an unknown number of books at this point. Okay, you know, it could just be a trilogy. I'm not sure. But, it's called The Republic of Memory by Mac El Sayed and it's described as Arab futurist. Um [snorts] and so, the Safina this is a generation ship tale, it seems. So, the Safina is a city ship 200 years into its voyage from the ruins of Earth towards a new habitable world. It's crew maintain the ship generation after generation whilst protecting their ancestors, the final remnants of Earth's doomed network empire by keeping them alive in cryostasis. But, a lot can change in 200 years and people are starting to ask questions. Why should the crew continue to toil for people none of them remember? And what exactly gives it administration its authority over everyone else? When the blackouts start, they set in motion a chain of events that will change life on the Safina forever. A reckoning is coming. The system is only secure as long as those in power maintain the obedience of those beneath them. And the people has had enough. The science fiction odyssey of breathtaking scope, The Republic of Memory is a gripping examination of what divides us and what brings us together. Perfect, it says here for fans of The Expanse, A Memory Called Empire or Children of Time. Well, those are all books that I've enjoyed. So, that you know, that sounds like it might be worth a go. We'll see. Um and another yeah, another continuing book in a series is Heaven's River, which is the fourth book in the Bobbyverse. I thought there were more than four. Uh there is a fifth one coming out later this year, I think. But, I thought there were more than four. But anyway, the fourth epic installment of Dennis E. Taylor's Bobbyverse series plunges a fractured fleet of sentient clones into a high-stakes quest to solve a century-old mystery, unearth a reality-shaking discovery, and battle existential chaos. I should say actually, I've not read any of the Bobbyverse books, so you can tell me if I'm missing out. The Bobbyverse is on the brink of chaos as civil war brews and the fate of one of their own hangs in the balance. More than a century ago, Bender embarked on a mission to the stars and vanished without a trace. Uh despite relentless efforts to track him down, his disappearance remains an unsolved mystery. Now, Bob is rallying his allies to uncover the truth of what happened to Bender, no matter the risks. Uh but this isn't just a search for one lost Bob. It's a mission that could redefine the future of the Bobbyverse altogether. Generations of replication have fractured the once unified Bobs into a dizzying array of personalities, with some so far removed that they might as well be strangers. While a few support Bob's quest, others see an opportunity to push their own agenda. And as tensions rise, internal conflicts threaten to spill over, putting Bob's mission and the stability of the Bobbyverse in jeopardy. Undeterred, Bob follows the elusive trail left behind by Bender, only to uncover an enigma beyond anyone's wildest imagination. And what they can find out there could either be their salvation or the greatest danger that they've ever faced. And at this rate, this blurb is going to be longer than the choffing book. So that's, you know, the latest of the Bobbyverse. Like and like I said, I haven't read any of them. Continuing that theme, the next out on the 14th is Matt Dinniman, A Parade of Horribles, which is book eight, God help us, of Dungeon Crawler Carl, which I'm not 100% sure is my thing, but it has been recommended to me by one or two people whose taste I trust. So I should probably give at least the first one a go. But anyway, the eighth explosive installment in Matt Dinniman's best-selling LitRPG series, and it's off to the races. As chaos and mass panic spread outside the dungeon in the wake of the faction wars, Carl and Donut find themselves on the 10th floor, where they're forced to compete in a surprisingly normal set of tasks. Well, normal for the dungeon. Races. Get from point A to point B and don't come in last. After each race, they pick up an upgrade for their vehicle and the track gets more challenging. It all seems a little too simple. Ignore those strange glitches that are occurring with increasing frequency. Don't listen to those whispers about what's happening on the mysterious 11th floor, something the system AI calls A Parade of Horribles. Nobody, not even the showrunners, know what that means. Just that the AI has ominously dubbed it as a coming out party for the ages. Everything is fine, Kholer. I repeat, everything is fine. Kholer hates that it's business as usual. The rules of this floor have taken away his agency and that just will not do. So, Kholer is planning a party of his own. It's a plan so dangerous and so insane that he can't even consult his friends less the AI put a stop to it. Because if it goes wrong, it's not just the end of Kholer and donuts. No, the stakes are higher than they've ever been. Well, I can't say that massively I must say, but you can let me know what I'm missing out on. 21st of May is The Photonic Effect by Mike Chen. May is a bumper month. There's not nearly nearly as much in the following months. And by the way, The Photonic Effect by Mike Mike Chen. What space opera is meant to be apparently. Brilliantly complex novel about love, loss, and war. The starship captain and her crew face conspiracies and betrayals as they clash with various factions of a galactic civil war in a thrilling space adventure. By Mike Chen. The starship Horizon's crew spent 10 years trapped across the expanse of space and now they're finally home. Only it's not the home that they knew. The cluster once a peaceful coalition of planets has fractured in the wake of civil war. Captain Demora Kim wants nothing more than to protect her surviving crew. It is what she owes them after years of instability and terror. But in times of war, no one is allowed neutrality. And after an attack on a mining station leaves thousands dead, Demi's efforts become almost impossible. Every ship is needed on the front line. Thrust deeper into a conflict that she barely understands, Demi considers a bold choice. One that might keep her promises, but tip the galaxy further into chaos. Well, I you know, I'm up for a bit of space opera. That sounds like it might be fun. All right. So, we're into June. And if you by the way, if you know of any books that are out during this sort of next few months that I don't mention, then do let me know. I haven't attempted to be comprehensive. These are just books that have come to my notice. On the 18th of June arrives um in the UK at least M. John Harrison's new book, The End of Everything, part and potentially his last book. He's getting on a bit. I don't know if it's his swan song or not. And it says here, "At once surreal, seductive, shrewdly funny, and wholly terrifying." Philip Tennant makes his living at the tide line collecting artifacts that wash up from the channel. It's been years since the crisis changed everything, but its exact nature remains obscure. Government barely functions. No comment. The seas are full of new creatures. Europe has been mislaid. It feels like the end. But now Philip has fished out of the water an object that he cannot keep, a creature that keeps changing, an artifact that he must take inland before it destroys everything that he thinks he knows. The End of Everything is a slyly satirical and unsettling post-apocalyptic adventure into the limits of human understanding from the peerless master of contemporary fiction. So that's that's probably best described as a slipstream, I think, probably rather than science fiction, you know, mainstream novel with some science fiction trimmings, perhaps. On the 18th, a book that is definitely and indisputably science fiction is Peter F. Hamilton's Exodus, the Helium Sea, which is the sequel to I think it's the Archimedes Engine, you know, the second of the Exodus books, anyway. For millennia, the Crown Dominion has been at relative peace, with the Celestials in control and a human population a little better than serfs. But now the Crown Dominion is facing a crisis of epic proportions, one that could change the balance of power in the Centauri Cluster forever. As an exiled faction that has been waiting for 7,000 years beyond the Helium Sea has returned to claim its vengeance. For Finn and his human allies who have ended up at the center of this conflict through either the circumstance or manipulation, this is an unprecedented opportunity. If they can band together, they might be able to outwit the Celestials and finally earn their fellow humans a place of independence and power in the Crown Dominion. But first they must locate and master ancient artifacts of immense power that could give them the needed edge in the conflict ahead, all while ducking the forces that are determined to knock them off the board for good. Now, I was a bit sniffy about the um first Exodus book. I kind of didn't buy it, which is unusual for me cuz I usually really enjoy Peter F. Hamilton's um work, but um it seemed to be associated with either a game or a uh you know, a like a board game or a a computer game, and I wasn't didn't feel um inclined to read it as a result, but subsequently people told me it was really good and I should um I should read it. I've got the first one um courtesy of a viewer actually. Thank you. I think it was Andrew. On the 18th is a a paperback release for a book that did arrive last year in in hardback, and that's Hearth Space by Stephen Baxter. Thousands of years ago a massive colony ship arrived at the Hearth, the celestial birthplace of millions of planets ranging from habitable Earth-like worlds to unimaginable hellscapes of pressure and heat. Using light sails to navigate, humanity has spread itself across dozens of these worlds, but they've also forgotten their beginnings, where they came from, and a terrible secret is about to be unveiled. For Commander Ella Breen on her first tour of duty aboard a patrol sailship, the universe is about to change around her. Attacked by an unknown and unthought-of enemy, she and her fellow crew members will face slavery, punishment, and death, and so will their home planets because someone else has seen the richness of the inner Hearth and plans to take it for themselves. A new enemy, but one who seems disturbingly familiar and perhaps knows more about the history of the Hearth than even Ella and her crew. All right, sounds all right. Um I think his recent books have been a bit mixed. Um I enjoyed um Creation Node. I hear Fortress Soul wasn't that great, and so I don't know um if you So, if you since this has already been out in hardback, if you if you read Hearth Space, then you can let us know what you thought. Uh let's see. On the 25th of June, uh Adrian Tchaikovsky, who seems to to churn out three or four books a year as as a normal kind of pace, is extraordinary. Uh but anyway, he has a new book out, and it's it's science fiction. It's Green City Wars, um and it says here, "In a city of sunshine and secrets, the shadows belong to the animals." So, we're in a solar-powered future, and humans live in luxury. Sounds all right to me. Uh served by unseen little helpers, are enhanced animals who maintain their perfect green cities. The animals' number one rule, do not bother the humans. Yet, uh beneath this tranquil facade, a complex underworld of animal politics, crime, and conflict thrives. Enter Scotch, a freelance raccoon investigator. Until now, his biggest problem has been a lack of work, and now his work might get him killed. His latest case, finding a fugitive mouse scientist. Uh but, powerful forces are also after Dr. Meese, and they're willing to kill for his secrets. Sounds a little bit a little bit light-hearted, uh but also noir, as you know, it's a noir detective tale from the sound of it. Can Scotch navigate this treacherous web, uh outsmart rat gangsters, beat a deadly weasel assassin, and keep his pelt intact? More importantly, can he find his quarry before uh before the elusive rodent breaks rule one in the most apocalyptic way and shatters their fragile world? For fans of uh John Scalzi's Starter Villain and Adrian Tchaikovsky's Service Model, Green City Wars is a crime-inspired adventure that will draw you deep apparently into uh an incredible new world. I don't know that I fancy that one. Uh we'll see. Now then, into July then. On the 1st of July, um according to Amazon earlier this year anyway, uh there was going to be Red God by Pierce Brown, which is the final part of the Red Rising series, which um many, many people are big fans of. But, apparently it is not coming out this summer. Um so, apologies for teasing you briefly there. Um there is no release date. I think he's struggling with that last book a bit. He's got a dose of the George R. R. Martin's, I think. Um and it might be that it doesn't arrive until next year. And then we've got uh on the 2nd of July, uh World's Edge, which is a haunting collection of near-future fiction from the master of American wild, uh James Sallis. And it's a collection of um five, I think, previously published novellas. James Sallis, uh World's Edge, it says here, presents five masterful novellas, Day Dayanu, Carriers, Settlers, Allotments, and Reconstruction, exploring fractured societies, human resilience, and the fragile intersections of morality and survival. Sallis's prose, as sharp as it is evocative, captures the nuances of his dystopian and near-future settings, resonating with themes of dislocation and identity. Widely regarded as a pivotal voice in contemporary US fiction, Sallis's work aligns with literary giants such as Cormac McCarthy and Denis Johnson, weaving the poetic bleakness of the former with the incisive character studies of the latter. These stories draw readers into a world both intimate and unyielding, where existential questions lurk beneath stark, elegant narratives. Well, look, I've never read anything by James Sallis, so that sounds like a good way to get into his work. 9th of July is a book by what I think is a Korean author, Isabel Kim. When you emigrate, you leave a version of yourself behind. Literally, one instance crosses the border and the other stays trapped behind it. Some instances keep in touch, call each other daily, and synchronize their lives and minds in the hopes of reintegrating and resuming a life as one person. Other instances, like Sue Young Rose Kang, leave home at 10 and never speak to their other selves again. With a life of her own in New York, Rose never imagined that she'd return to Korea. And then her grandfather dies and Sue Young, her Korean instance, summons her back home for the funeral. But Sue Young's motives are not as innocent as Rose imagined, and the consequences of Rose's return to Seoul will change her forever. So, this is a story of doppelgangers and corporate intrigue, heartbreak, and betrayal. Nebula Award-winning author Isabel J. Kim has written an immigrant tale like no other, capturing the longing for another life and twisting it into a dangerous game of cat and mouse. Back Back to the blooming mice again. And we talked about the new Murderbot book on ebook and audiobook earlier on, but it arrives in hardback at least here in the UK on the 16th of July. Right, then we're into August, and I think August is as far as we're going to go in this video. On the 6th of August is a book by Richard Swan called The Infinite State, which is the first of something called The Daevabad Saga, so I guess it's going to be the first of a series. In this brand new, blistering science fiction epic, Sunday Times best-selling author Richard Swan presents a thrilling tale of survival and eviscerating examination of totalitarianism. Who gives you life? Pater Aeternus, it says. Catherine Fuller's husband is dead. And as as an esteemed member of Pater Aeternus, the governing party of the fascist galaxy-spanning Decurion Empire, he has left behind an estate of immeasurable wealth, and Catherine is going to inherit it. Life under the Eternal Father is rigidly stratified, surveilled, and controlled. Each new day to be endured, not lived. But with Catherine's new-found fortune, she is presented with a rare and dangerous opportunity: purchase a virgin world and create a better fairer society. But the Empire cannot allow its wayward daughter to succeed. And as Catherine works in secret recruiting allies she's not even sure that she can trust, she will discover exactly how far Pater Aeternus is willing to go to stop her. Because Catherine's going to create something that nobody has seen for many, many years. A democracy. 1984 meets The Man in the High Castle, it says here. In gripping sci-fi, The Eternal State from Richard Swan, which begins at a flash point in the lives of a widowed party member, a disgraced investigator, and a hypersleep pilot entangled in a plot to escape the suffocating authority of a fascist state. It's rather transparent critique of of the rightward march of our politics, it seems. Now, in August, a little bit like the um Piers Brown book, there was a placeholder for a release from British author Mary Gentle, author of Ash: A Secret History, amongst other things. Um and the book's titled The Landing, but it now I um I actually wrote emailed Gollancz. I think it was Gollancz. Um asking, you know, if that was the legit date, and they wrote back to me saying, "No, no, it'll be 2027 sometime." So, it's not arriving this year, but it's definitely one to look out for. It's the first of hers for ages, I think. On the 25th of August is a book called Netherwood by James Arnott. And I I don't think this is really science fiction. No, again, you could call it um slipstream. It's a modern gothic tale, it says here, about a couple who moved to the seaside town of Hastings and find themselves living in the former home of a a notorious local occultist over whom the shadow of former town resident Aleister Crowley looms large. Exhausted by the pressures of life in London, Justin and Adam move to Hastings with Adam's failed career as an artist and a recent miscarriage causing rifts in their marriage. As they try to settle into their new seaside home, they find a bolted door in their basement behind which it is a cave. Adam feels a strange but enchanting pull to the cave whilst apprehension begins to claw at Justin. Inside the cave, they find a witch bottle and with this discovery, the couple begin to uncover disturbing rumors about the home's previous owner, John Malakai. A sinister figure, Malakai was known for his obsession with chaos magic and an association with sacred disease, a band that rose to fame in the 1980s and supposedly experimented with blood magic and occult forces and was made a scapegoat in the media due to their association with Satanism. Justin and Adam seek answers from James Blackwood, a local occultist and former member of sacred disease. He warns them to leave things be and not to tamper with ancient rituals, dark magic and secrets long buried in the past, but John Malakai is long dead. Surely everything the media said about him was only superstition. When Justin once again finds herself pregnant and people in the town begin to turn up dead or missing, the lines between truth, reality and the mystical all begin to blur. The ghosts of John Malakai and the one and only Aleister Crowley himself loom large and a dark sacrificial reckoning closes in on both Justin and Adam. I've only read one book by James Arnott and that was House of Rumors, which I very much enjoyed. That wasn't science fiction either. All right, I think that's everything for now because then we're into September and I'll I'll do another video like this one in September sometime. But just to tease you a little bit in towards the end of the year, there's a new Emily St. John Mandel, there's a new James Islington or Islington. Typically a fantasy writer, but this is his first science fiction novel apparently called Scion. There's a new China Mieville out September. There's a new Derek Künsken out The Quantum Dawn in October, a new Claire North, a new Adam Roberts, and a new Becky Chambers in fact folks about. And I'm sure there'll be there'll be more to come as as the as the release schedule gets penciled in. Let me know if any of those sound interesting to you. Or as I said, if you know of any other books that are out soon that I haven't mentioned, do let me know. As always, thank you for watching and until next time. Goodbye for now.
