[1] your guide to the most anticipated fantasy and scifi books of 2026 (so far) — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRWYgzlJfHs

The Cruel Prince meets the Mummy. Oh my gosh, it's a song. It's my song. Say goodbye. Sinister lesbian history mystery sold. What? Both of them think they're being haunted by each other. How many intergalactic spies can you fit in a bathtub? And hello. I hope you all have a snack, a beverage. Did you have water today? This is going to be a very long video. In fact, I already filmed it. I'm doing this completely backwards. So, I come to you tired, but also so excited for 2026. Um, the books in this list are so good. I say it later in the video, but I feel like a year that Lee Bardugo is putting out fantasy, it's going to be a good year. There will be timestamps down below so you can skip around. I'll also list the titles and the genres if you want to listen to the ones that seem more interesting to you. I've got sci-fi, fantasy, and horror. Some of them are a mixture of the three of them. They all sound just insanely good. So, I made this list thanks to so many amazing book creators, especially book bloggers, so many great websites still going strong in the like short form content world. If you are looking to join that wonderful group of people or start your online presence in any way, shape, or form, you can thank the sponsor of this video, Squarespace. I use Squarespace as a blogging platform, but because they have so many different features such as connecting your social media accounts, monetization for shopping, they have email lists, comment sections, really great analytics, and also just really cool templates to make your website look really cool. So, I know a lot of people who are artists or creators in many different ways that use it as a portfolio and like a kind of resumeé landing page. You can try it out right now. You can go to squarespace.com and play with it for free. see what you could do with it and then when you're ready to launch it to the public, you can go to squarespace.com/care to get 10% off your first website or domain. So, thank you so much to the book bloggers out there. Love you. And very quickly before we dive in, the list is going to be all either beginnings of new series or standalones. So, I want to give a shout out to the continuation of series that we're going to get in 2026. I'm making this on January 15th, so I'm working with the knowledge that I have right now. Shout outs to continuation of series. January 27th, we are going to see To Ride a Rising Storm, which is the sequel to To Catch a Dragon's Breath, which I adored. And I feel like that book, the first book, was a really wonderful setup for the second book to be just crazy action-packed. May 5th, we're going to see Platform Decay, which is a new Murderbot novella. If you haven't started the Murderbot series, what are you doing? Little goofy. On May 19th, we're going to see the sequel to the Amina Al-Sarafi series. It is called The Tapestry of Fate. I really need to do a reread of that now that I like understand the way that the story was being told. That was such a fun fantasy read because it really played with narration and I don't think I like understood it until halfway through the book and then I was like, "Oh, wait. This is really funny." So, definitely going to be rereading that and then diving into The Tapestry of Fate and then September 1st. You will not hear from me on September 1st. You likely won't hear from me the weeks leading up to September 1st because I will be rereading 9inth House and Hellbent because we are getting a new Lee Bugo called Deadbeat. Not sure how I feel about the title, but it's a continuation of the 9inth House series, which reading 9inth House and Hellbent back to back when Hellbent came out was the most fun I've had in a really long time. And I want to do it again. I'm going to read all three, just marathon it, and it's going to be great hopefully. Also coming out on September 1st is the continuation of the Night and the Moth series called The Nave and the Moon. I'm excited for those who are excited about it. Unfortunately, The Night and the Moth was a miss for me, but um super excited for the girlies who are just losing their minds because we love that. And then finally, October 6. This is for me so random because I never know what VE Schwab is doing. She's always just like writing a hundred books at a time. I picture her as what's what's that guy's name from Spirited Away? Kama. What? Kama. Kamiji. Thank you, Kurt. Yeah, I say that. I say that affectionately. Like I never want her to stop doing that. That's wonderful for us as the reader. Um, but she is releasing Victorious, which is the third book in the her villains series. What was it called? Vengeance. Vicious, Vengeful, and now Victorious. Vengeful. The second book came out 8 years ago. It came out in 2018. So, that's crazy [laughter] that she's continuing the series. Excited for that, too. I I don't remember that being my all-time favorite series by her, but I still had a good time. So, I'm looking forward to it. That's what's happening. Before we dive into the official list, though, um I just want to give you guys a heads up, especially because I've already done this, so I'm not scared of you. Um, the reason why I really wanted to make this, not only do I want to talk about new releases, but I want to remind you that you can request books from your library. It really helps the authors, um, especially if they are debut authors. Um, so you can go either directly to your library, um, probably to your library's website, but definitely it's really easy if you have Libby, which if you don't have that yet, God, and your library participates, please change my life. Libby is just a virtual platform for your library. So you can get audiobooks, ebooks, etc. from there. One thing that you can do on Libby is that even if your library doesn't have it yet, you can set um a notification for when they do. So then, let's say they purchase deadbe, I will then be notified and can immediately get on that holds list. I'm never number one. [laughter] Somebody always beats me. San Diego County Library, whoever you are, my nemesis. I'm sure we would be best friends in another dimension, you know. But for now, you're my nemesis. Whoever is always in front of me in line for every book that I want. [gasps and sighs] But yeah, I I do really encourage you to get a jump on these books by going to your library. Also, like pre-ordering is really wonderful, too. But in case you are just unable to. If I pre-ordered every book on this list, I would be out hundreds of dollars. So, yeah, I just want you to flex your library muscle if you can. It helps support your library. Go do that, Libby. Love you. So, like I said, please get water and a snack, and I will see you in winter 2026. [music] Welcome to winter. I'm going to try and break these up by season because I started this list thinking like, oh, it's just going to be 10 or so. No, [clears throat] I've already mentioned the books that are going to be sequels or continuations of things. So, what follows is beginnings of a series, standalones, etc. And I've read a few of these, so I will insert my thoughts into the ones where I can. Starting with a book that I finished yesterday and really enjoyed. The Swans Daughter. This is young adult fantasy. This was so whimsical. I think that some people will not like it. So, I'm going to talk to you about the writing style in a second. But in terms of the story, we are following the daughter of a Veritoss swan and a wizard. And Veritas swans are these mythical creatures that can turn into beautiful women. They can also turn into swans. And when they fall in love, they like give up their agency basically and the person that they love can have control over their lives, whether they can change into swans, things like that. So love is a very dangerous game to play if you are a very tough one. We meet our main character when she is running away from her family because love is a toxic toxic thing in this world and she decides to go to the one place where her father can't follow her which happens to be the royal palace that he built. So, we do have sentient houses that are so fun. And when she arrives at the royal palace, it's kind of perfect timing because they happen to be holding a competition to find the royal prince, his bride, and very swans have this handy trick where they can sing and compel people to speak the truth. So rather than joining the competition to like win his heart, because again, love not her deal, she instead asks to work for him and uses her power to help him see which of the women actually love him. Especially because for reasons the book will get into, most of them are also trying to kill him. [laughter] Their teamwork and their trust in each other is literally life or death for both of them. So um it just made for a really fun time. The strengths of this book was truly the whimsy of it all. I will say like the romance, I wasn't loving the prince. He was there. He was fine. You know, I feel like I could grow to love him if I had enough time. But the real strength of this book was just that descriptive language. There was a point where our main character had to use her imagination to think of what can darkness signify, where can you find darkness? It makes sense in context, but basically she lists for like more than a page just lists all of the places you could find darkness. And it just made it felt like my imagination was waking up. Like where can you find darkness? Sure, in a dark room, but also like the shadow of a tree on snow or in the gleam of a tiger's eye and like it was just pages something. Ooh, it just scratched an itch in my mind. That being said, I think the writing style could annoy some people because we walk into a room and we get endless descriptions of things. It can't just be like she sat down at her desk. It has to be like she sat down at her desk that was covered with and then listing everything that is on this mess of a desk. So, this really was just Rashani showing off her wonderful whimsical imagination. The story was still very cute. Like, I really enjoyed the story. I loved the side characters, but if you're looking for like this gutting romanty, it's not that. It is very almost like a grim fairy tale. I truly had such a good time. So, that is The Swan's Daughter. One that I was looking forward to for so long, and it didn't let me down. It was a little different than what I expected, but did not let me down in the slightest. I am counting down the days till January 20th because everyone I know has said that this book has ruined them, changed their lives. It is going to be on their favorite book of the year, if not favorite book of all time lists. The hype for this is unreal. The people that have hyped it up are people that I really trust. So, I honestly feel like it's not going to fall short of my expectations. And that is The Poet Empress. This is a debut and the books that it is comped to are crazy. It says um and I'm grabbing all of this from good readads. It is a lush and deadly world perfect for fans of the serpent and the wings of night, the song of Achilles and she who became the son. Can you can you imagine putting all of those books? No. Um so I'm super intrigued. Apparently, this is like a devastating read, which I'm always there for. Basically, we're introduced to a world that is suffering with a famine and the threat of a civil war. Our main character, Weey, because of the famine killing her family, becomes a concubine at the palace, like a concubine to the prince. And when civil war is about to break out, that's a really deadly place to be. And this world also has magic that is performed through poetry, but that magic is waning. And so, quote, "To survive, Weey must harden her heart, rely on her wit, and become dangerous herself, even if it means becoming a poet in a world where women are forbidden to read, and composing the most powerful spell of all, a ballad of death and love." So, yeah. Yeah. I really love when magic systems are more than just like they point their finger and they can do magic. I love when it is based on something physical like writing poems or writing a song or things like that. Really excited for that. So that is The Poet Empress. Maybe what I'm looking forward to most currently my most anticipated read of the year. Okay, following that we have The Bone Door. This is by the author of Voyage of the Damned, which I haven't read yet. Apparently, it's a cult classic. I believe it's like queer pirates. I don't know. When I made a video about funny fantasy, people were recommending that as like it's a really good time. Apparently, this book is not a good time, but intentionally. This is adult fantasy horror sci-fi. This is about a child named Hop. And when he awakens in an ancient labyrinth, he has no memory of his life or how he got here. He doesn't recognize the mysterious girl trapped with him. and he certainly can't identify the shadowy figure stalking him, whispering terrible things. But there is one thing he's certain of. He must escape. The only way out of the labyrinth is through the bone door, but it lies behind a series of locked doors hidden across an array of realms. As Hop travels deeper into the maze, he discovers that he and his companions may be more connected to the place and its horrors than he could ever imagine. All the reviews I've seen of this have basically said, "We can't tell you anything." This is one of those books where you need to go in knowing nothing. I love a book where we are finding out how the world works alongside the character. I think that's what a lot of people really liked, including myself, about Project Hail Mary, where we also have a person who wakes up alone in a spaceship with no memories. Um, and you just have he has to discover who he is, what's the mission, etc. I really like that personally. So, this sounds right up my alley and I am very excited for The Bone Door. Okay, February. This at first I wasn't sure because I'm not really a cozy fantasy girl, but when I saw who was writing it and when I read a little bit more, I'm very excited for what comes out on February 17th. This is Agnes Albert's Mystical Cat Shelter by Heather Faucet, author of Emily Wild. I know so many people who think that Emily Wild's Encyclopedia Fairies is like written by an author named Emily Wild. No, it is written by Heather Faucet. Uh, this is categorized as adult fantasy, romance, cozy fantasy, and historical fiction. Historical fiction because it takes place in the 1920s in Montreal. Let me read to you what it's about. Agnes Albert leads a meticulously organized life, and she likes it that way. As the proudly type A manager of a muchneeded cat rescue charity, she's devoted her life to finding forever homes for lost cats. But after she's forced to move the cat shelter, Agnes learns that her new landlord is using her charity as a front for an internationally renowned and thoroughly disreputable magic shop owned by the disorganized, not to mention self-absorbed, irritating, and also decidedly handsome Havlock Reard, magician, and failed dark lord. The shop draws magical clientele from all around the world. Agnes' charity offers the perfect cover. She couldn't care less about the shop, magical intrigue or not, there are cats to be rescued. But when an enemy from Havlock's past surfaces, the magic shop, and more importantly, the cat shelter are suddenly in jeopardy. To save the shelter, will Agnes have to set aside her social conscious and protect the man who once tried to bring about the apocalypse and is now trying to steal her heart? Yeah. So, yeah. I one thing I love about Heather Faucet's writing is her characters and specifically when her characters get annoyed with each other. I love like Emily and Wendell, especially when it comes to them being organized and things like that. When they bicker about like, "Girl, why didn't you do the dishes or like why is your house so dusty?" Like things like that. I enjoy that so thoroughly. So, I know that she can write quarreling between people who are like very type A and very type B very well. I also love books about failed villains. You know how much I love A Throne in the Dark, which is a hilarious romanty series about a person who is supposed to be a villain and he's just not very good at being bad. Um, so all of this intrigues me. Also, a cat shelter, a home for lost cats. I feel like even Emily Wild has been called cozy fantasy and to me it wasn't it had cozy moments but it wasn't just overall a cozy fantasy. So I'm hoping that this with its like enemies and blah blah blah. I hope that it will be like the right kind of cozy for me is what I'm going with. So that is Agnes Albert's Mystical Cat Shelter by Heather Faucet. Also cool cover. Okay, next up is one I'm not sure about. It also comes out on the 17th and it's by an author who I am aware of but I haven't read their work but a lot of you guys when I asked on Instagram what your anticipated reads were a lot of you said this so I'm going to add this in. This is The Sun and the Star Maker by Rachel Griffin who wrote The Nature of Witches which I haven't read. Um this is young adult fantasy and romance. And here's what Goodreads says. Nestled deep in snowy mountains, the small village of Revery endures on a miracle. Beyond the reach of the sun, Revery is dependent upon the magic of the mysterious star maker. Every morning, he trudges across the vast glacier and pulls in sunlight over the peaks, providing the village with the light it needs to survive. Aurora Finch grew up on the tales of the Star Maker's magic, never imagining she'd one day meet him. But on the morning of her wedding, a fateful encounter in the frostbitten woods changes everything. The Star Maker senses a powerful magic within her and demands she come study under his guidance. The Star Maker is as cold and distant as the dark woods, leaving Aurora to explore his enchanted castle with only an immortal rabbit for company. Yet, the more she discovers about the sorcerer, the stronger their ruinous attraction grows, pulling her closer to the secrets he refuses to share. A deadly frost approaches and Aurora must uncover what the star maker is hiding before she is left in an endless winter that even the sun cannot touch. So, I don't know. It's giving a little Beauty and the Beasty whenever there is like takes girl to enchanted castle and then abandons her there. Those are the vibes I always get. So, um interesting and I think would be really good for winter if you live in a cold and snowy place. That is the sun and the star maker. After that, we have what I think is a debut. This is coming out on February 24th and it is called The Red Winter. It is adult fantasy historical fiction and horror. On Goodreads, there are two blurbs that caught my eye and that would be Alex E. Harrow, Love of My Life, and the other Love of My Life, T. Kingfisher. Um, and they both blurbed it and said it was amazing. And say less, say less. This is a devastating love story, a bewitching twist on history. It is a blooddrenched hunt for purpose, power, and redemption. So, this takes place in 1785 where Professor Sebastian Grave receives the news he fears the most. The terrible beast of Guldon, Gaodon, has returned. And the French countryside turns red in its wake. And it turns out that this is actually a true legend or like unexplained occurrence. This beast of Jevodon Jevodon sounds a little bit more appropriate. Anyway, it's the historic name associated with a man-eating animal or animals that terrorized South Central France between 1764 and 1767. There are a lot of eyewitness accounts of these attacks. Its identity is still the subject of debate and remains unsolved to this day. The Kingdom of France used a considerable amount of wealth and manpower to hunt the animals responsible. Yeah. So, it's it's like a real unsolved thing that happened in France, which I find is really interesting. But it's back, baby. So, it went silent. 20 years later, it's back. So, Sebastian has been recalled to the hunt by an aranged lover who shares a dark history with the beast and a terrible secret with Sebastian. France teeters on the edge of revolution and Sebastian's arcane activities, not to mention his demonic counterpart. He has like a demon companion has also attracted the inquisitorial eye of the French clergy. I love when Catholics get involved. And the beast is poised to close his jaws around them all and plunge the continent into war. So creepy beast, demons, nosy Catholics, French Revolution, I'm all there. Uh that is The Red Winter. Next up is one that piques my curiosity, but I got to say, whoever wrote the Goodreads uh summary, needs to look at that again because it doesn't make a whole lot of sense and there are literally words missing. Like, I had to retype it because there are genuinely words missing. So, I worry for this book because this is a debut and I really hope that the editors of the book are not the same people who are the writers of the Goodreads summary. Okay, just putting that out there. But here we go. It is called Weaving Shaw. Comes out on the 24th. It is adult fantasy romance Gothic. This is a debut Gothic fantasy. The first book of an enthralling fantasy romance trilogy. A young woman who can see the dead strikes a deal with a magnetic and dangerous purveyor of dark secrets to save her brother's life. Three years ago, our girl Lena awoke with a terrible power. She can see the dead. Since then, she has hidden herself from the world. But when her beloved brother falls fatally ill, Lena barters her secret in order to buy the expensive medicine that will save his leg. The saint of silence accepts her bargain for a deadly price. Lena must find the ghost of Perl Avon, the last lord of Weaving Shaw, or lose her freedom to the saint forever. As Lena's search takes her and the saint to Weaving Shaw, a creepy ass gothic manor, she finds the estate in the surrounding wars to be living things hungry for blood and sacrifice. Fighting against weaving Shaw's might, Lena must also fight her growing pull towards the enigmatic saint himself, whose connection to Percal Avon remains a mystery. And perhaps some secrets are better left buried. So, could go either way. I'm optimistic. I'm optimistic, but um somebody go fix the good readads, please. And thank you. And strangely enough, the last book for February, speaking of girls who enter into deadly bargains in order to save their brother from an illness, we have We Who Will Die. Yes, this comes out technically on the 27th. I got this as a book of the month book. Sometimes you get them a little bit early. Just saying. This is adult fantasy romance paranormal. What's paranormal about it? Vampires, baby. Okay. So, I have in fact already read this book. I'm going to tell you what it's about and then give you my thoughts afterwards so that I don't affect you can skip it if you don't want me to affect your experience because I've seen so many people say that they loved this book. That's all I'm going to say. That's all I'm going to say. Okay, here we go. Faced with an unthinkable choice, her brother is dying. Our girl Arll makes a magically binding vow to do the impossible, to kill the emperor, who happens to be an ancient vampire. But first, she has to enter the Sundering, an arena where only the fastest, strongest, and deadliest survive long enough to be selected to the Emperor's elite guard. With her brother's lives in the balance, she has no choice but to ally with a man who once shattered her heart and with the Emperor's sadistic son. Rooric, the son, holds the key to understanding the powers Arville is developing. Abilities that would put a price on her head if discovered by the emperor. To survive the arena and complete her mission, Arville must get to the bottom of a conspiracy that will change everything she thought she knew about herself and the two vampires who are deeply entwined with her destiny. Okay, so yeah, it's uh it's vampires but also gladiators. Okay, you've got mortals, you've got mortals with magic, and then you've got vampires. Okay. Um, and going to be honest, this did nothing for me. This did nothing for me. This was at times incredibly predictable in terms of like the big aha moments, but in terms of like the world building and how things worked, I couldn't guess what was happening because it was so messy. Things just weren't explained very well. things were happening so easily for our girl. She's also really dumb. I just yeah um really didn't enjoy this. And also the love interests are so Tamillin and Reandcoded if you know what I mean. Um so it was just it it just was truly empty for me. And and in terms of like the whole gladiator competitions, there's a bunch of different trials she has to pass. Those trials passed in the blink of an eye. And then the actual like trading and all of this stuff goes on for forever. But also it doesn't like we don't ever see I just yeah I got nothing from this but also I've seen so many people dying over this. So as always take my experience you know it's grain of salt but um that is we who will die. Unfortunately, not for me, but it does come out on the 24th of February for you. There you go. And then we enter March, inching towards spring. We have on March 3rd, Green and Deadly Things. This is adult fantasy, high fantasy, sci-fi. This is a page turning standalone fantasy of necromancy and magical mayhem. Um, yes. Yes, please. It says, "Senturies ago, necromancy almost destroyed the world." That's how history remembers it. History remembers it wrong. So, we have, I believe it's Matiak. Matiak has trained his whole life to join the sacred order of the Adallic Knights charged with defending their world from the forces of necromancy. Only vestigages of that cursed magic remain. Nothing [clears throat] like the fabled days of the Grimlords, the undead wizards who once nearly destroyed the world. I love that name, the Grimlords. But when an even stranger kind of monster begins to wake, the knights quickly prove powerless to stop them. So, it's a good thing then that the Grim Lords were never truly destroyed. One of their numbers sleeps below the knight's very fortress. And when an army of twisted tree monsters attacks the young initiates in his charge, Matt decides to do the unthinkable. He wakes her up. The threat of this wild magic attacking them, the tree monsters, is part of a cycle that is repeated countless times. Life after death, chaos after order. And if she and Matt can't find a new way to balance the scales, this won't just be the end of the world as they know it, but the end of all life everywhere. Um, I love weird botanical horror magic. I love when people need to unlearn things that they have been taught. So, yeah, I've I've heard great things about this and I am very excited. That is Green and Deadly Things. Next up, coming out on March 4th, is another one that I have. It's a very shiny book. If I can get it in the light. It's like blinding. I have to move this around my living room because the sun as it moves throughout the day. I'm like constantly blinded. Um, this is Rings of Fate. Uh, I got it from Book of the Month. It's coming out March 4th, apparently. This is adult fantasy romance, folks. Okay, here we go. She is a barmaid that doesn't believe in fairy tales, and he's a prince cursed to live one. We have Aaron, who has no interest in being anybody's princess. She's too busy running the Ravens Beak Tavern. But when a brush with death and a dangerously handsome stranger upends her life, Aaron finds herself bound to a bargain that could change everything. And then we have Prince Dayton. A curse is killing him. The enemies are closing in. To make the journey to reverse his curse, he needs a bride to hide his secrets. Why? I'll find out. Aaron wants freedom and pretending to be his fianceé could give them both what they want. But as their perilous journey pits them against political schemes and a monstrous killing drawer, the fate of two kingdoms may depend on whether a cynical barmaid and a cursed prince are willing to risk their hearts. Yeah, I haven't actually heard any review of this book, but I've heard other people are excited for it. Somebody said that this was based off of The Princess Bride. I can't quite see how. I'm not sure. But either way, um, it could it really could go either way. I'm hoping that this is a book that doesn't take itself too seriously. I find that I have much more fun with romanty that has a bit of comedy to it. Um, but look at these look at these chapter headers. All right. Um, [gasps] that wasn't a spoiler, but the the chapter just starts with, "Well, that night was shitty." So, I will read that, but it comes out, what did I say on the 4th? Yeah. The 4th of March, Rings of Fate. Following that, immense excitement and confusion, not going to lie, but also excitement. Um, this is coming out on the 10th. It is called Hell's Heart. It is adult sci-fi horror. Um, this is by Alexis Hall, who wrote boyfriend material, which I really didn't like, but also A Lady for a Duke, which I really liked. So, we will see. This is being comped. This is being comped to Gideon the Ninth and Moby Dick. Okay, let me read to you. I edited it a bit to shorten it, but let me read to you what Goodreads says. This is about it. This is the Earth done for. Okay, we've [ __ ] it up to the point of no return. Having long exhausted any conventional sources of energy, life in the solar system is now sustained by a volatile hallucinogenic substance called spermiceti. Spermaceti, [laughter] I don't know, which is harvested from the brains of leviathans that swim the atmospheric currents of Jupiter. So there are like giant dolphins swimming around Jupiter. Okay, that's where we get our energy source from. Now finding herself with no money and no connections, the narrator I takes a commission aboard a ship as it sets out in pursuit of these creatures. Once aboard, she finds herself pulled inextraably in the orbit of her captain, a charismatic but fanatically driven woman who the narrator names only as A. As they plunge ever deeper into the turbulent monster haunted atmosphere of the gas giant, the narrator begins to lose herself. Oh, hallucinogenics. Is this going to all be a fever dream? I'm excited. Um, the only thing that might keep her grounded is the bond she develops with Q, a woman from the wreck of old Earth whose skin is marked with holographic light and who remembers things otherwise lost. I don't know. giant dolphins. It's queer. It's got hallucinations. We're in space. I'm willing to give it a go. Alexis Hall has been 50/50. This is their sci-fi debut. Intrigued. Intrigued. March is going to be a crazy month, by the way. Also coming out on the 10th is When I Was Death. This is young adult horror, fantasy, and speculative fiction. This is by Alexis Henderson who wrote The Year of the Witching, The House of Hunger, and Academy for Liars. And just listen to the very first sentence of this. A group of teen girls does death incarnates bidding in this haunting, speculative young adult novel. Um, yeah, I love when teen girls are freaky, and this is exactly what it is. This is about Rosyn Folk, who isn't herself anymore. It's been a year since her sister died in the woods under mysterious circumstances, and Rosalyn is still tormented by her absence. So, when the elusive caravan of girls that her sister spent her last summer with rolls back into town, Roslin joins them to finally figure out what happened to her sister. Strange, beautiful, and intriguing, the girls are closed off from the world. And as it turns out, they're brought together by a force more sinister than Rosyn's nightmares could have conjured. Death himself. So, up until the deal with death, this really reminded me of the Honeys, which or is it just Honeys, which is like a horror summer camp book in which a sibling of our main character dies and they go to this summer camp to like try to retrace her steps and figure out what happened and there's this group called the Honeys and they're just like beautiful and weird and um I really liked that. So, I'm hoping that this one is the same. I didn't love Academy for Liars, unfortunately. I did like The Year of the Witching, but the Academy for Liars had such a great premise and then really really fell flat for me. So, I'm hoping that this isn't the case. I'm hoping that coming back into horror is more of uh Alexis's game. So, that is When I Was Death coming out on the 10th. really quickly because I have no information about it. Coming out on the 24th is a collection of short stories by Amal Elar called Seasons of Glass and Iron. I believe most of these stories have been published elsewhere and this is more of just an anthology. It says that it is full of glimpses into gleaming worlds and fairy tales with teeth. Seasons of Glass and Stories is a collection of acclaimed and awarded work from Amal El Mutar. These stories are told in letters, diary entries, reference materials, folk tales, and lyrical pros. And it's full of her Nebula, Locust, World Fantasy, and Hugo awardwinning and nominated stories. So, um, it's not 100% new work, but I've actually never read any of their short stories other than I've read This Is How We Lose the Time War, Love. And The River Has Roots, love. So, I feel like this will be something really wonderful to have and just be able to crack open at any time. So that is Seasons of Glass and Iron coming out on the 24th and then the last two of March. Um, this woman is insane. Okay, the 24th of March, we get a Tea King Fisher book. We clap, we cheer, we scream. But then in August, we get another Tea Kingfisher book. And then in October, we get another Tea Kingfisher novela. The way in which words just flow out of Tekking Fisher and the words are good. Like I've never not enjoyed a story by TK. What magic is she cooking with? I don't know. Um, so yeah, I will mention those later in the video. But in terms of our March release, we have Wolf. We I can't say this. Wolf Worm. Wolf Worm. This is adult horror, fantasy, gothic, and historical fiction. Something darker than the devil stalks the North Carolina woods. The year is 1899, and Sonia Wilson is a scientific illustrator without work, prospects, or hope. When the reclusive Dr. Halder offers her a position illustrating his vast collection of insects, Sonia jumps at the chance to move to his North Carolina manor house. But soon enough, she finds that there are darker things at work than the Carolina woods. What happened to her predecessor, Halder's wife? Why are the animals acting so strangely? And what is behind the peculiar local whispers about blood thieves? Sonia discovers that Haldder's enmological studies have taken him down a dark road. Here's the horror part. full of parasitic maggots that burrow into human flesh and that his monstrous experiments may grow to encompass his newest illustrator. as well. I am obsessed with Tea Kingfisher, period, full sentence, but I'm also obsessed with the way that they can write the coziest, most heartwarming, lovely fantasy romances and then also just the ickiest, scariest horror and thriller. Like, the twisted things or the twisted ones genuinely gave me goosebumps and had me so frightened. Who Moves the Dead? Is that what it's called? gross. Also weirdly heartwarming. Like I love that main character so much. Um but also just like icky, damp, gross. So fully fully trust her to give us amazing characters and really gross stuff. In this case, bugs. So yeah, I'm so so so so excited for Wolfworm to be able to peek inside her brain. I would give years of my life for that. And our final winter release, which technically is in spring. Okay, go with me here. Uh, this is coming out on the 31st of March. It is called This Kingdom Will Not Kill Me. This is by Ela Andrews. This is adult fantasy romance. Um, I have read two books by this author, and this author is actually a husband and wife team, which just boggles my mind. Um, I've read two books by this author. They are so fun. urban fantasies, funny characters, just like a good time. And this sounds like a really um funny weird time like all of their other books. This is a page turning unforgettable fantasy set in a city people with ruffians, spies, malcontents, and murderers. Experience this out of thisworld adventure and dangerous politics as Maggie tries to survive. Waking up in her favorite fictional world. When Maggie wakes up cold, filthy, and naked in a gutter, it doesn't take her long to recognize Care Torin. It's a city she knows intimately from the pages of a famously unfinished dark fantasy series. one she's been obsessively obsessively reading and rereading while waiting years for the final novel. Alto, is that you? Guys, I know she's not on the list, unfortunately. Maggie's only tools for navigating this gritty world of rival warlords, magic, and mayhem. Her encyclopedic knowledge of the plot, the setting, and the character's ambitions. But while she quickly discovers she cannot be killed, though many will try, the same cannot be said for the living, breathing characters she's coming to love. A mly band that includes a former ladies maid, a deadly assassin, various outrageous magical creatures, and a dangerously appealing soldier. And this is the start of a new series for them. I think that as an author, um, the two of them are intimidating just because they've written so much and it's sort of like, where do I start? But this is the beginning of one and it could be a good time. So there you have it for our winter selection. I will see you a little bit later in spring. [music] Okay, a new day, a new season. We are jumping into spring and I realized December I I realized that I forgot how to split up the seasons. I got to spring and I was like, why do I only have two months? Because March is considered spring. Anyway, you learn something new every day. Okay. [laughter] Anyway, diving into April. Now, these are all going to be books that I haven't read yet. So, I'm pretty much just going to give you the barebones information that I have. We're going to do this a little bit quicker than last time. If there is an author that I like, I will tell you my thoughts on them. But, um, if I don't know anything else, I'm just going to tell you what I know. Tons of books coming out April 7th. Do books usually come out on like a Sunday, a Tuesday, and then what was the other one? May 5th had a lot also a Tuesday. Okay, so it seems like Tuesday, correct me if I'm wrong, publishing people, Tuesday is a pretty popular day for publishing books. Doesn't matter for the sake of this video. Anyway, April 7th, in no particular order, The Subtle Art of Folding Space by John Chu. This is adult science fiction fantasy. From what I gather, it is about a girl who is living in some distant future and she finds that the way to cure her mom's disease is also the way that is destroying the earth. And how do you make that choice? So, let me read it to you. Ellie's universe and this one is falling apart. Her alien mother is in a coma. Her sister Chris accuses her of being insufficiently Chinese. and a shadowy cabal of engineers is trying to hijack the skunk works, the machinery that keeps the physics of each universe working the way it's supposed to. Ellie's cousin has found an illicit machine in the skunk works, one that keeps Ellie's comeoma's mother alive, while also creating destabilizing bugs in the physics of the universe. It's not a good day. And soon, Ellie will be forced to choose between her family and the universe itself. It contains unhinged physics, generational trauma, and the comfort of a really good dim sum. So, yes, I love the cover, by the way. Whoever did that, props, props to you. Another work of science fiction coming out on the 7th is called What We Are Seeking. I personally love this trope or storytelling style. So, I feel like I'm going to be really interested in it. Um, not sure it's going to hit for everyone. This is adult sci-fi fantasy. This is a soaring novel of queer hope and transformation. We're dealing with this planet called Cythia. Our main character, John, who is a doctor from another planet, has been abandoned here light years from the peaceful forest that he loves. The desert is harsh, and the people adhere to a barbaric custom called marriage. He must find some way to make a life here. But on Cythia, survival means transformation, and not everyone is willing to accept change. Basically, Cameron Reed tells Reactor in an interview that it's got weird biology, alien languages, and a surprising amount of cooking. But mainly, it's about how to make a life when you're forced to live among people with radically different customs, whether they're human, alien, or AI. Basically, John's home planet, this doctor, they do not believe in marriage or like monogamy. And so, coming to a planet that does, and also like the biology is very different here. like trees create insect whatever. I don't know it could go either way but I'm I'm interested. I love when a person is like stranded in a completely different culture. Um so that is what we are seeking. And then we get a book from an author I do know and genuinely love but I have such a complicated relationship with. This is Kelly Andrew. The book is called The Gravewood. It is YA fantasy paranormal romance. It's got vampires in it. And the thing I love and hate about Kelly Andrew is that she creates really great characters, but they are all in the same world. It's not communicated very well that those worlds are connected until probably the last 25% of the book. Her first three books are all taking place in the same world and all the characters know each other, but you don't know that. Very annoying. So, I'm hoping that this one, it really sounds like it's in a different world, and I'm praying, but I swear to God, if those characters from the first book pop up again, I just don't know what to do. Also, Kelly Andrew, I believe, is deaf, and a lot of characters that she writes deals with that. Um, yeah, she lost her hearing when she was four years old. I feel like I learn a lot when I read her books because like there are just certain things that like people who are hard of hearing or people who are deaf um the ways that they like tweak their lives a little bit. Um really cool. So like I genuinely love Kelly Andrew. I just wish that she would leave some characters behind. So what is the gravewood about? In all caps it says is it love or is it blood lust? [laughter] Sheay Parker has lived her entire life in the shadow of the Gravewood, a deadly forest that's cut her town off from the world. With resources dwindling, she's forced to ration her hearing aid batteries. And when her stash runs out, she'll be left in silence. Her only hope is Oliver Leander, the volatile leader of the vampires who rule the gravewood. Okay. Their deal is simple. She gives him her blood. He brings her her batteries. No lines crossed. Nothing personal. That is until Shea's best friend is lured into the gravewood. And that best friend's brother returns from the front lines, willing to expose Shea's darkest secrets to get his sister back. Ever the opportunist, Leander offers a new bargain. If the brother kills his vampire rival for him, he'll help find the missing girl. And if Sheay agrees to turn, he'll cure her ailing mother. Every deal pulls her closer to Leander and to becoming a monster herself. [clears throat] So, so much potential. It feels so early 2000s paranormal romance coded. I cannot wait. That is The Gravewood. Okay, the next one sounds crazy. And actually, a lot of you guys did put this when I put up an Instagram story asking about your anticipated reads. Quite a few of you said this, so glad we got some freaky people in this club. Um, this is called Year of the Myrr. It is adult fantasy, maybe a romance, definitely a retelling. And this is a dark, bloody epic fantasy re-imagining of The Little Mermaid. It explores family legacy, war, what we sacrifice for vengeance. The perfect read for fans of The Priy of the Orange Tree and Cersei. So, this is following the granddaughter of Ariel. Yummy's not having a great time. Ariel got her happily ever after. Yummy, not so much. Her father, who is the king, just got assassinated. But apparently, we're not crying too hard because he was maybe a piece of [ __ ] Um, but that's all going to be okay because Yi is going to take over. She's going to take the throne. She's going to fix everything. Okay, wrong. The kingdom's discontented rumblings reach a fever pitch and coups erupt. Yi's throne is usurped, stripping her of her family and forcing her into exile. Now only one being has the power to help her. A little someone named Ursula. Yes. Um like her grandmother before her, Y is tempted to deal with the sea witch. She's thinking avenging family, taking back her throne. Okay. She's not thinking Ursula has been biting her goddamn time and waiting for an opportunity to make another deal with this freaking mermaid family. Okay. It may take more fortune than Yummy possesses to keep her from losing everything all over again. The author has described the book as a I love this. Um, on one hand, it is a sappic tragedy, but on the other hand, it is a harrowing beach read, you know, for spring break. And then our final release on April 7th that I know of. Another book coming out that is a YA fantasy romance is called To Steal a Throne. And at first reading this, I was sort of like, okay, this, you know, whatever sounds like every other book I've read, until we get to one particular sentence, and then I was locked in. So, let me read it to you. Okay, so this is a YA fantasy novel, perfect for fans of divine rivals. A girl who has always served others decides to take power for herself. Okay, so we've got a girl, Meera, who runs the court of Verde from the shadows. Ever since she helped her halfb brotherther Luke cheat his way into the role of Virday's leader, she's used her lieowered magic to collect secrets from members of the court, then use them as blackmail to keep her brother in power. But when newcomer Kyrron shows up and challenges Luke's leadership, he threatens the stability Meera has worked so hard for. Cuz he also has magic. Magic that can detect the precise nature of someone else's power with a single touch. If Kyron so much as brushes against her, everyone will discover Meera is the one who's been manipulating the court for years. As Kyron and Luke compete in three deadly challenges called the trials. So, here's where I started to lose interest. And then Meera realizes no matter who wins, she'll be stuck serving a mediocre man who doesn't deserve to be in charge. She's done hiding in the shadows. She wants power of her own. To get it, she has to betray her own brother and Kyrron. But the fiercer the competition gets, the more Meera realizes that the only boy who could destroy everything is the one boy she might not be able to resist. So, don't love how that ended, but I love that when she's like, "Wait a damn minute." Neither of these guys deserve to run the show, okay? Like, they're mediocre men. Here I am pulling the strings. I feel like it could be very funny and just very vindicating. So, that is To Steal a Throne, coming out April 7th. Coming out on the 14th. This is another one that so many of you guys are interested in. So, I went immediately to my library. I was like, I know there's going to be competition. Tried to get that on hold. I have it notifying me when my library gets it. Okay, this is of course Deadly Fates YA fantasy romance. It is being compared to Descendant of the Crane. Loved the Bonehard Daughter. Didn't read. And a magic steeped in poison. Loved. So, I'm all ears. This is about a corpse-driving priestess. She is a holy servant paid to guide the deceased home. She's usually not scared of death, deals with it all the time. But when her father gets sick, she realizes, "Oh, wait. Mortality is really [ __ ] scary." And she is ready to do anything to get the medicine that her father needs. So, she takes on a very dangerous job going to pick up the corpse of a missing prince. She travels through hostile lands to pick it up. And when she puts the little talisman on his head to reanimate him, just to like help him walk, okay, he's not supposed to actually wake up. The prince actually wakes up. The prince is actually alive, not just like a corpse that she can walk to safety. Okay, but he's not going to stay alive for very long. Not unless he absorbs enough chi to keep his soul anchored to his body. Now, our girl is like, I was sent here to deliver a dead body. What if I bring the prince back alive? That sounds like a reward. Sounds like my reward just doubled. Okay, so she's hellbent on keeping this boy alive. So, she agrees to aid the frustratingly handsome prince in finding and purifying evil spirits for their cheat. But as they journey across the countryside, encountering vengeful ghosts and enemy spies, they gradually uncover dark secrets about the prince's death. Secrets that could endanger both her father and their entire kingdom. in ghosts, necromancy, kind of in I I understand why this is on everybody's list. Very excited for that one. Next up is a work leaning more on the horror side with fantasy. Like the fantasy element is like maybe there are ghosts. So, this one is sort of on here just because I'm anticipating it, not because it necessarily fits the theme. This is Japanese Gothic. It is categorized as adult horror, historical fiction, and fantasy. This is by Kylie Lee Baker. I didn't love her young adult work. She wrote a young adult fantasy that I just like could not get into, but she recen
