[1] 2025 Fantasy Football Quarterback Rankings | Tier Breaks, Sleepers & Draft Strategy — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CcCQRnxFgE

Welcome back to another episode of Fantasy Football RPG, where I zoomed in during the intro and now everyone's uncomfortable. Uh, today we're doing fantasy quarterback rankings for 2025 reddraft fantasy football. I know we do a lot of dynasty stuff over here. Let's do some reddraft stuff. So, without further ado, here's our beautiful tier maker made on Google Drive. And uh you guys mind if I just fly through the top, guys? It's uh Josh Allen, Lamar Jackson, and I have a question for you fellas. Is Jaden Daniels in that tier already? I don't think he's quite there yet. Um could he be there at this point next year? That wouldn't surprise me in the slightest. But I don't want to crown the guy after one very good season. Uh we've seen this before with guys like Straoud, guys going further back, Baker Mayfield, who have that promising rookie season. We want to see it be the next step and we draft them as if they're already there. A lot of times with rookies, especially the ones that start out really strong, there is a secondyear fallback where the league has a year or tape on you, they adjust. Jayen Daniels is a very good quarterback, but I'm not sure if I'm willing to just put him right there with the two perennial MVP candidates. Completely fair. Is Jaylen Herz here? Uh Herz is my quarterback three. He's in that like you can make a case for either one. He's one of those guys. He's a good real life quarterback. He's much better in fantasy. The tush push is still there even if it wasn't. He's the top five fantasy quarterback. Uh, I'd probably put him in Won't Have to Stream instead of Top Dogs, but I wouldn't argue against him being in Top Dogs. Evan, you're very quiet as the Eagles fan. No, I mean, I think it's really hard to predict what rushing touchdowns look like year in and year out. Uh, and that honestly is where Jaylen Herz makes his hay. It's a low passing volume offense, even though they are incredibly efficient uh, when they are passing the ball. I mean, I was just pulling up while you guys were talking what he did last year in the regular season. 361 pass attempts compared to uh Lamar and Josh Allen who had 474 and 483 respectively. Uh you're going to tell me that there's over a 100 attempt difference here uh between those guys and Jaylen Herz. And that's going to be a hard pill to swallow. Uh, so for that I would not put him with those top two. Okay. Uh, I did have to look this up. So the last time Jaylen Herz did not have 10 rushing touchdowns on a season, uh, a portrait of a lady on fire won the Rotten Tomato for best movie of the year. Soul was in theaters. Wow. Uh, you guys might remember this. There was this thing COVID happened. So that's the last time Jayen Herz did not have 10 rushing touchdowns. That's okay. So we'll take them off of here. I think we're good putting both Jaylen Herz and Jes. Yep. I'm good with that. All right. And who would you guys like to add in next? Uh my next one would probably be Joe Burrow. Um, obviously the ceiling isn't quite as high as Allen and Lamar because he doesn't run as much, but what we do have is a guy who's a great passer with a terrible defense and probably the best one-two wide receiver punch in the league. We've seen Burrow be efficient when it's just one of Chase and Higgins. So, it's not like he's one injury away from falling to a tier below. He's one of the best passers. He's incredibly reliable week in week out. You never really have to worry about him. It's similar to what you were getting with Brady and Manning back in those days where you don't you may not have much of a rushing floor, but how efficient he'll be passing the ball, how often he'll be passing the ball, you feel comfortable putting him in there every single week and not thinking twice. I don't know if you guys remember from our Dynasty show, I looked at Evan and I said, "There's no way they can keep doing this having no defense and only playing offense." And then they signed Chase to a big extension. They signed Burrow to a big extension. They signed Higgins to big extension and they still have not signed their first round pick defensive player over contract disputes. So Hendrickson also not extended yet. I I'll tell you what, uh Joe Burrow, I don't like to bet on pocket passers in year-over-year. I think they're very good for Dynasty because they're going to keep a little insulation. They're going to age a little better. Joe Burrow might just throw for 5,000 yards because he's gonna have to if they want to win eight games. So, Evan, who else would you like to put in the won't have to stream category? H, it might be controversial. Um, but I'm gonna say Baker Mayfield. All right. Right there with you. Uh, okay. Awesome. Appreciate that, David. Appreciate the support here. Uh, Baker got another wide receiver uh for this offense. He had Jaylen McMillan last year. Uh now he added a Mecha Igbuka. Uh on top of that he still has Chris Godwin coming off of the injury from last year. He still has the perennial thousand yard even if they have to force feed him in the last game of the year. Uh Mike Evans there still has the snap king in Kottton at tight end. Still has a solid offensive line. Mike, you know I'm gonna run with that bit for for a while. All right. Uh he still has a effective passcatching backfield. Uh honestly, both of them are effective pass catchers. So you put all that together and yeah, I think it's very reasonable that he has a top 10 season. Um could potentially have a top six season. Um, but I very much think of Baker Mayfield being in that six to eight settling range um, for total production on the year. Okay, we'll see. David, who who would you like to put in? Uh, next up, I'm going with Kyler Murray. Obviously, the floor is a bit lower than with him than all the other guys we've mentioned so far. You'd like to see him throw more passing touchdowns, but you can't ignore the rushing upside. You have Marvin Harrison coming in to year two. And I know he didn't do what Neighbors did. He didn't do what Thomas did, so guys are a little low on him. He still had a really strong rookie season. I expect he'll get better in year two. He has Trey McBride, a great tight end. And Arizona's defense not that great. So, it's not like I doubt Arizona is going to be in too many situations where they just run out the clock to end the game. Kyler, there's going to be more volatility than the other guys on this list, but the high upside weeks for me, I'm he's a set and forget QB1 for me. I support that my microphone has decided to declare war on. So, I'm gonna keep trying to mess with that. But before I go to do that, uh, Knicks TV9 last season, anything else? Absolutely not. Discuss while I mess with my microphone. You ever watch M Jones play football? Remember how he had a really good rookie season when he was basically playing with training wheels and everything went absolutely perfectly and then something happened that made him have to try a little bit harder and he couldn't do it and fell apart. Bo Nicks, look, I I know what he did last year, Mike. I understand what you're getting at. He still has no weapons. He still has Courtland Sutton, who correct me if I'm wrong here, but I'm pretty sure he had his best statistical season last year, uh, and is in a contract season. So, uh, are they really going to want to force feed him the ball to have back-to-back best statistical seasons to have to be able to pay him, uh, a lot of money come next off season? Are they going to try and use other wide receivers? Is the fact that they actually may have a running game now? Um, wow, what a shocker. you put some draft capital in a running back, um, probably going to use him. Still have one of the best offensive lines, but it's also one of the best defenses, Mike. And when you have one of the best defenses, uh, in the NFL, you probably don't need to move the ball too much to win games. So, um, somebody else that we're gonna bring up here is Jared Goff. All right. Hate it. Yeah, I do hate it. I can't talk about Oh, no, he's gone. I can't talk about Jared Goff without first talking about Patrick Mahomes. Look, I know it hasn't been the same for the past few seasons. And I personally think Mahomes has dropped off to a certain extent. I don't have him as my like pure talent QB1 anymore real life football. That's Josh Allen and in fantasy, but he's too good to just place him be like at QB10, which is where we're at if you want to put golf ahead of him. Mahomes, there's a lot to like about the Kansas City offense right now. The offensive line, they have a left tackle now and losing the left guard Joe Herz, but it's still a good offensive line. Andy Reid is still there. You should have Rashid Rice back. Xavier Worthy is going into year two. Hollywood Brown is back and healthy. Travis Kelce, yeah, he's a little bit older, but he didn't really do that much last year anyway. From a fantasy standpoint, yes, he did because Mahomes just kept throwing the ball at him over and over and over again. But in terms of like actually helping on a football field, he was completely washed. So, I doubt really like Kelsey getting a little bit worse really doesn't move the needle one way or the other for me. Um, yeah, I can't justify putting Patrick Mahomes below Jared Goff without Ben Johnson. Just can't do it. When is the last time Patrick Mahomes has been good for fantasy football? Two years ago. Well, define good. You won't have to stream anybody else. Yeah, probably two years ago. 2022. He he did he win MVP that year? Yes, he did. And he was genuinely fantastic. He earned it. That was three football seasons ago, guys. We're living in the past in football world. I think the rushing floor has gone away. The big plays have gone away. The the style that they are winning football games with is no longer fun for fantasy. And maybe, you know, Worthy breaks out, Rice comes back healthy, everyone's favorite sleeper, Jaylen Royals becomes a thing. But I think we need to leave Mahomes here, but it's more out of respect than anything else. I don't know like when are you drafting him instead of just punting on the position? I'd be fine putting him in streamers or dreamers, but what I cannot do is put Jared Goff above him. That's that's my take on the matter. Yeah. And I think if if this is how we're going to define it, I think that's perfectly fine. Uh if we're going off of, you know, hey, these are the guys that if I don't get these guys, I'm probably just punting and waiting till a little bit later. uh once pretty much everybody else already has their quarterback uh for one quarterback leagues, which is still the majority of a lot of fantasy football leagues. Uh if you're working anywhere, they probably are trying to get you to join a league. And if you try and take one of those guys above these two, uh yeah, I mean, you're probably set. If you try and wait until this tier, um then you're probably waiting and seeing how far you can really push the bubble. Uh, how many people in your work league just have to have that second quarterback because it's quarterbacks and they're so important? They're the players you can name so they're good. Um, this is going to be a very weird tier because streamers and dreamers. I I view that as guys that you feel good like Mahomes golf those make sense. They're safe. You want to chase high upside uh matchups with them. But these are also the guys that we can talk ourselves into. And you know, maybe they take a big step forward and we'll want to talk about it. I'm not going to say them yet, but I'm going to talk about somebody else later. We're nine quarterbacks in. Is that right? I golf is 10, I believe. Two, four, six. Oh, no. Nine. You're right. Okay. Who is the last, if it's a 10 team league that we can see being a QB1 that you're like, yes, this is this is my quarterback. Maybe I don't feel good about it because he's in streamers and dreamers, but you punt it and you're okay with it. Yeah, this is another I just can't ignore the talent. Justin Herbert obviously like Harbaugh's offense is Jim Harbaugh is a good NFL football coach. He's not great for the fantasy passing attacks out there. The wide receivers aren't that great. Lad Mcconkey love the guy. Trey Harris not really sold on him and they're probably going to run the ball as much as humanly possible. At the at the end of the day, Justin Herbert is a top five six quarterback in the NFL. He plays in an offense where he had a pretty solid finish. I think he was top 10 last year. So, and he did it with a worse supporting cast. So, I expect similar results this year. Low-end quarterback one. If I'm in dynasty or excuse me, if I'm in superflex, I'm more than happy taking him here. If it's reddraft, I'm probably shooting for a more high upside guy at QB 10 or 11. He's a perfect trap for a one quarterback league and I think all three of these guys are because they're just good enough they're going to be like well I don't need to upgrade and then you spend the whole season getting somewhere between 15 and 22 points from your quarterback and you're like man he didn't lose me the week one quarter yeah one quarterback league I can't emphasize enough don't draft this tier like if you can't guys early just shoot for the moon with one of your later round guys. There's enough quarterback talent in one quarterback leagues to just stream it and you'll probably end up with something solid and maybe hit a home run. Yeah, I think there's another guy in this tier same flavor as Mahomes Goff and Herbert Jordan Love. Do we think that he's going to take a huge step forward and be anything crazy or do we think he's you chase good matchups, you feel fine enough, there's good enough weapons, weather starts getting bad, he stops throwing the ball as much like Toyota, he is a f after Toyota thon he turns into a mess. But uh Jordan Love is another guy that he might finish the season as a QB8 on health, but spike weeks are fine. We feel good about him in this deer. No. Wow. You think he's below streamers and dreamers? No. I just don't feel good about him in this tier. It's a It's a low It's a low passing volume offense that they're gonna just grind the clock. They didn't move with a ton of um I don't know, speed last year. Urgency. Thank you, Mike. uh last year in the offense when you get down into the red zone typically they're trying to run the ball in. They're not trying to pass the ball in. So, you put all of that together and to me that tells me his touchdown upside is probably going to be relatively low. Uh the total volume of pass attempts is probably going to be relatively low. I think he was in the low 400s last year. Uh let's see. Yeah, 425. So, if you're telling me that you're not even clipping 450, uh, and you don't have elite rushing potential upside, then where's the ceiling? You're talking about ceiling games, Mike, but where's the ceiling? I'm saying if they are forced into a situation where they have to pass a lot, where they're playing in a good division, like when they play the Vikings in a dome, they're going to need to throw. When they're playing the Lions in a dome, they're going to need to throw. They're playing the Bears, if the Bears take a step forward, who knows? I'm not saying this is a seasonl long ceiling. I'm saying there will be four or five games where you take Jordan Love off the waiver wire, you plug him in, he gets you your 21 points, you move on with your life. Okay. A streamer sounds good. Streamer, not a dreamer. Sure. And uh since you just mentioned the team, now we're going to talk about a dreamer in Caleb Williams. Um because that is very clear. Talk about somebody who has been talked to talk about uh somebody who has been talked about at Nauseium this off season. Uh coaching change on top of getting an additional wide receiver along with getting a tight end in the draft. Like you're going to tell me that Luther Burden's going to go there and Coulson Lovelin's going to go there. Sure, both rookies. Um, but very high draft capital being assessed into those two players on top of still having DJ Moore there. Who knows really what they're doing at running back. Maybe they're not even going to really run the ball. Maybe they're just don't need to. Maybe. Yeah. Hey, Caleb. Here's weapons. Exactly. Here's 600 attempts, Caleb. Go distribute the ball. Go be a quarterback. Like, we don't need you to chuck it downfield. We just need you to put it in the playmakaker hands. keep us in front of the chains and we'll keep moving downfield. You pair that with Ben Johnson and his play calling ability and that is a potential for some spike weeks. Yeah, I will say like the call if Caleb can't figure it out with like Ben Johnson and the supporting cast, I'm out of I'm out on him entirely. Like this everything's in place for him to have a great year. Yes, but it's quarterback. Quarterback's hard. Uh, other streamers and dreamers. Bon. It might Oh, yeah. Yeah. Put in Bonix. But we talked about him. Uh, Mike, I think it might be time to play it. Oh, I can't. You have to do it. Oh, no. I don't know how to do that. Evan, do you know how to play it? Go to media. Come on. Talk to me about Justin Fields, the starting quarterback for the New York Jets. top five quarterback for the New York Jets, Justin Fields. Maybe the graphic will pop up halfway through this, but um Mike, you're a much bigger Justin Fields guy than I am, but I can't deny the opportunity is here. He's a fantastic runner. That alone is going to set a pretty high floor. Can he throw the ball when Garrett Wilson is the only wide receiver worth mentioning? Who knows who that's why he's in the streamer and dreamers tier, but it probably won't be the highest volume in the world. It's probably not going to be the most efficient passing attack, but the spike weeks are going to be there. And you know, for that, he deserves a spot in this tier. I will never forgive Streamyard for cutting away my mic, so I had to join from a guest account. So, I could not hit under media, scroll to the videos, click the Justin Fields one. Gosh, this is the worst day of my life. But yeah, [Music] we're back. I found it. We're back. But, uh, the offensive line looks to be good. The running backs are able to catch checkdowns and get into space. I'm talking about Bruce Hall and Isaiah Davis. Brillin Allen is just going to run forward and run into somebody whether it's on his team or not. That's fine. Uh Gary Wilson good. Aren Smith fast. Alan Lazard still plays football. And who cares about all of that because Justin Fields is gonna rush for maybe 800 yards again if he's healthy? But why not say he's going for over a thousand? Come on, Mike. Lean into the bit. Lean into I set the bar too low. Justin Fields is gonna throw Sanders. Your record is going down. I remind me of this in a year. Justin Fields is throwing for 3,000 yards and rushing for a thousand and he's going to finish as a top five quarterback. Let's go, baby. And the Jets will still go six and 11. Yep. But uh All right, other streamers and dreamers. I have another dream. I have a beautiful, beautiful dream where the big tight end that the Colts drafted is good for Anthony Richardson's development. and the coaching staff gets through to him over the next three to four months and he finally puts it together. Not all the way, but enough that he keeps the starting job. Is there somebody with higher upside that you can get at QB25 on best right now than Anthony Richardson? Upside, no. But if we're going for a tier ranking, like there's too much uncertainty there for it's more likely to me Daniel Jones steals the job then that happens. This is supposed to be dreamers, but I'll put them in super flex bubbles. I put him in probably play probably. Oh, no. I'm with David on this one. Yeah, when you when you led with the big tight end, I thought you were going to call Anthony Richardson the big tight end. I kind of forgot about Tyler Warren. Move Anthony Richardson to tight end. He'll break records. Put him in Ta Hill roll. Sleeper if you're watching. But all right. No, that's fair. uh other pocket quarterbacks that we have not talked about anybody really I have one but Evan uh do I don't want to jump on you here anyone you got so I I was going to bring up to the Patriots fan here and David I love that the Drake May situation Yep. How is how is that going to play out? Because we saw his wheels, we saw the legs get used last year. Uh just picking it up here, 54 Yeah. 54 attempts for 421 yards in the games that he played. Uh if that trend continues, are we talking about somebody that's going to be an 800 plus yard rushing quarterback? I think it's like in the realm of outcomes. He's probably going to throw it a bit more than that. Partially because he's got a freaking beautiful arm. He has a magnificent deep ball. But also Mike Vrabel's coach, if you remember going back to the Malik Willis days, like he was actively yelling at Willis for running the ball instead of standing in the pocket and throwing it, which like from an actual coaching standpoint, I get it. Willis really couldn't throw coming out. May can. So maybe he won't be as strict, but Frabel's not really going to want the fun stuff. Like he's a very old school type of coach. Run the ball, throw it when you have to. Frankly, he would not have been my pick for head coach of the Patriots. Um I also am not the biggest fan of the moves they've made this year. Diggs is the ceiling is there, but he's also on the wrong side of 30 coming off a serious knee injury. Other than that, they haven't added anything in terms of like proven commodities to the wide receiver room, which was one of the worst in the league last year. The offensive line's better by default, but I still wouldn't call it good. It's still a bottom 10 unit. If you put Drake May on just about any other team, I'd probably be pushing for him to be a top 10 quarterback on these rankings, but I still think the Patriots are by and large awful. So, he's like right at the tier of streamers and dreamers for me just cuz I do believe like in terms of talent, he's going to be a top 10 real life quarterback. But in terms of fantasy, everything around him is so terrible, it might not be enough to get him up to the next level, but being so terrible, can he be a garbage time king like Blake Bortles was? Hell yeah. I'm always worried about banking on guys like that because like sometimes yeah you have the Bortles you have uh rookie Mchu where it works out that way but a lot of times if you're in garbage time the reason for that is because you're bad in the first place and not instead of just the entire team failing you because when you when it comes to projections a lot of what you're doing is like saying okay there's a 70% chance this happens. If you take that uncertainty, multiply it by every single player in the league, you're left with a glorified guessing game. So, if you're basically saying like, I think every team is going to be this, this, this, and this, and you're wrong about one of those things, it's pretty easy to do because there's so much uncertainty baked into that projection. So, I don't like just saying like, oh, garbage time. He'll get all the yards then because that involves pretty much all 52 other guys on the Patriots being disastrous. and I I don't like projecting things that way. All right, so just real quick, um we have eight guys in this tier already. So let's just take a moment and just reiterate here how important if you don't get those top guys are just wait. I mean there's plenty of guys in this tier that you can take two of them and just be like, "Hey, one of them might pan out, one of them might flame out." So, you are going to, especially in these standard 10 team, one quarterback leagues that most of their work friends probably like to do. Um, you have plenty of time to draft a quarterback and shoot for upside. Shoot for the dreamers more than the streamers because as Mike said, how much fun is it to sit there and be like, "Ah, yes, Jared Golf got me 15 points this week. That's That's not That's not fun. You know, seeing Justin Fields rip off 150 yards in a game rushing. That's fun, baby. And then have two passing touchdowns and a rushing touchdown. You're like, "Holy crap, this guy just got me 25 points this week. This is awesome, man." I think what's funny about this is that [Music] I'm on the receiving end of this now and I've created a monster. So there's the the top guys. You you're fine taking them pretty early, Allen Jackson. Then the won't have the stream. I mean honestly like you can get Baker a little later. You can get Murray a little bit later. So you don't really have to reach there after QB7 in these rankings. Like dude, you can punt there. You can punt all the way to the end because I I still think there's three more guys that fit into this tier. How do you guys feel about Trevor Lawrence, Brock Perie, and Dak Prescott? Each have their own reasons for believing, but I think they're all streamers and dreamers. I think they're streamers and dreamers, too. I'd probably put Deck at the top of those three just cuz again, pocket passer, not the highest ceiling in the world, but he has CD Lamb, he has George Pickins. We've seen what this guy does when he has a lot of like really highle receivers to throw to, it's usually fantastic for fantasy, and I don't see any reason why that shouldn't happen again. If Dak if Dak can stay healthy, that is that is the key. When Dak when Dak is healthy, he produces like none other. This Cowboys offense loves to throw the football around. Um, let's just see the the last last time he played 17 games, he was QB3. Last time he played 16 games, he was QB7. Time before that, when he played 16 games, QB2. All right. The last three full seasons, like really full seasons, he's been fantastic. Yep. And Javvante Williams is not going to demand the football. This is going to be a pass heavy offense. All right. I still have two more names. Uh CJ Shroud, who everybody was super in on last year. They've upgraded their wide receiver room. The offensive line is cheek, so I I'm fine if we push him down a little bit. But somebody that I would like to make a hard stance on and that I'm trying to draft as much as possible, JJ McCarthy. So, I just did a write up for football guys where I went back and I looked at the history of every quarterback Justin Jefferson has ever played with. We're talking about Josh Dobs, Nick Mullins, Kirk Cousins, Sam Darnold, every single one has been a QB1 in points per game or very close to it. So, when we're talking about like his floor looks like it will be a streamer and if JJ McCarthy is better than Sam Darnold in 2024, which I think is a reasonable bar, JJ McCarthy could, you know, sneak in that top eight, top six. Yeah, I mean, he's playing in a dome, which everybody loves. Uh, he's playing with a fantastic play caller. They upgraded the offensive line, improving at guard, improving at center, uh, this off season, which is always huge when you can get somebody coming off of an injury, somebody that's brand new to the NFL, uh, a better offensive line to give him more time to be able to throw. You know, those wide receivers are going to be able to get open. And let's not forget that T.J. Hawinson is now fully healthy again. uh that is a mismatch waiting to happen at tight end and he will be able to exploit those. You have a defensive coordinator that's going to have to figure out how to cover Justin Jefferson, Jordan Addison, TJ Hawinson, Aaron Jones out of the back field against a good offensive line. JJ McCarthy just needs to be fine and he's going to be a top 15 fantasy quarterback and I'm willing to bet on him being fine. Wholeheartedly agree. put third JJ there. Straoud I'm not so sure about. He had a rough year last year. His biggest weakness coming out of college and it's translated to the pros has been holding up against pressure. And Houston probably has the worst offensive line in football. It's definitely a rough unit. Um like the receivers are there, but you're placing a lot of faith in two rookies basically contributing right out of the gate. Dell's not coming back anytime soon. Diggs is gone. Collins is fantastic, but there's a lot of uncertainty, a lot of unknown here for a guy that had a fantastic rookie year, but last year proved that he can't really overcome any situation no matter what. So, I'm probably putting him in superflex, Bubbas. Okay, that's it's the rushing upside, Mike, on Straoud combined with everything that was just like the the rushing upside. Like, you're hoping for 200 yards. Like honestly, if you get over 200 yards, you're ecstatic. Um on the ground, if you get a single touchdown on the season rushing from him, you're ecstatic. Th those are all three points that you weren't expecting to get. And just like David pointed out, you know, the offensive line's a work in progress. Um, but also are you really once again that excited about having somebody that's going to be sitting right there around QB5, QB18? Like I think the takeaway for this is that Strad is being overdrafted and just pick one of the other streamers or dreamers. Yep. But all right, who would you guys like to put? Is there anybody else in this tier that you'd like to put or do we just want to fly through some super flex bubbas? Let's fly through the Bubbas. All right, David, start a name. Gino Smith. Good quarterback, decent situation, coach that knows him, but a coach that also loves to run the ball. Absolutely. Evan Bryce Young finally got a wide receiver one. Yep. We'll probably take a step forward. I don't know what that means for fantasy. Uh because he can go from being awful to being medium. Uh Tua Tago. Oh, look at that. Off the dome. Uh good job. No, not zero. Oh no, it's Tago. Tago, not Taga. I know. I think it auto corrected me. Check the tape. Uh zero rushing upside injury concerns, but electric offense. He'll have weird pocket passer spike weeks, but good luck figuring out when they are. David Matthew Stafford. Copy paste. All right. I actually really like him as a late dart and underdog right now because his pocket passer spikes are good and he has two of the best receivers in the league right now. True. Evan, you're welcome. Uh Sam Darnold. I would like to put him in probably plays quarterback because he's probably plays quarterback for me. I think the Seahawks are quietly tanking around him. Uh that offensive line is Cheeks. They have two receivers that play the same receiver position and one of them's washed up, broken, and old. And I like a Royo, but the rest is stinky to me. I would not be surprised if Darnold flames out. And when you look at Darnold, like everywhere he's gone, when there's pressure, he falls apart. And Seattle's offensive line will get him killed. He's probably play QB for me. I'm going with a guy, a much safer guy who has three whole starts to his name. Michael Pennock. Looked pretty decent in those three starts. He looks like a super flex option hopefully. And then I think yeah, he he's got an arm. Uh let's Cam Ward, number one overall pick. Uh not getting benched for Will Levis. Say that pretty confidently. Oh man. And in Superflex Babas, not probably plays quarterback for Cam Ward. Yeah, I'll give him the b first over. I'll pick I'll give him the benefit of the doubt. I think he will scramble enough and he has not the worst pass catchers in the league. Fine enough, but you also know I feel better about a manner. I feel a little better about Calvin Ridley. Chico Conquo is my sweet prince. So I think Cam I'm not saying he's going to finish as like QB 13. I'm saying like he'll be QB2 if he stays healthy. That's a superflex bubba to me. Okay. Any other superflex bubbas? Teams we have not covered, the Steelers quarterback and the Browns quarterback. I went in and filled those in for us. You mean Saints quarterback as well down there? I was going to talk to you guys about Tyler Shuck and about the Giants. They are both probably plays QB to me. Even if like the Saints are right about Chuck, they're terrible. Like this is not the environment you want to raise a rookie quarterback in, especially one that got sec like a less controversial quarterback with second round draft capital probably couldn't succeed in this. And now you're putting in a 26-year-old who probably only was drafted in the second round because the class was so terrible. I want no car to bet. Yeah, it was weird to see him go off the board where he did and then the car thing happened. It was like, "Oh, that makes more sense." But all right, actionable advice for our folks. Let's pick one person from streamers and dreamers that not a streamer. Let's pick a dreamer that is going to finish in the top 10 this year that you feel good about. I've made my case for J.J. McCarthy. I'll make another one for Trevor Lawrence. They add Travis Hunter on the outside. They add Liam Cohen as a head coach, a little stability, Brian Thomas breakout there. All of the ecosystem around Trevor Lawrence looks good for the first time. I feel good about that. I'll go with Caleb Williams. We talked about last year coming out of the draft. He was clearly the quarterback one in one of the best draft classes we've ever seen. Looking at it now, probably should have been Daniels. Maybe there's a strong case to have him instead, but that talent is still there. Now he has the best offensive coordinator from the past few seasons running the show. He has a stacked wide receiver corpse, two tight ends that can make plays. The sky is the limit. He if he finished his quarterback three, that wouldn't surprise me. Glad you're keeping expectations low. I said it's in the range of outcome. It would surprise me, but it's in the range of outcomes. Hello, Saras. Oh, subscribe for cats. If you've watched this far, be sure to like and subscribe so that David can give his cat more treats. Every subscription is one more treat for David's cat. All right. Uh Justin Fields is going to be my case. Uh you want to talk about somebody who has a chance to run for a thousand yards? It's Justin Fields. Um that that's plain and simple. Uh no, we're not going to play the video again. third time is not the charm in this episode. Uh, but you pair that with Garrett Wilson, you pair that with Mason Taylor, you pair that with Bree Hall out of the backfield, uh, who very well, Bruce Hall could have the second most targets on this team uh, this coming season. We'll see how it all plays out, but Garrett Garrett Wilson should be in for an absolute target hog share. Uh you look at the defense and the defense is coming around to what it used to be. Uh so he could be put in very profitable positions. So Justin Fields is going to be my pick. Oh, that looks terrible. I was going to try to highlight them so we can show people later, but I'll do that later. If you guys have made it this far, be sure to like and subscribe. Seriously, we're close to 800 and it's really cool to be there. Evan has been crushing his prospect profiles. David is going to start working on some. I did one. So, watch Trevor Lawrence film with me if you'd like to. But this is it for our 2025 fantasy football quarterback rankings. And Evan, I love you. Love you, Mike. Thanks for listening to another episode of the fantasy football RPG podcast. You made it this far, be sure to like and subscribe. If you want to check out written content, head over to lastwordsports.com. Don't forget you. [Music]
