[1] I Ranked ALL 150 Science Fiction Books I Read in 2025 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m68Jww8mDjc

Hi folks, welcome to the ranking video for all 150 books that I've read in the last 12 months. And without further ado, let's get started. First up is Bone Shaker by um Cherry Priest, which um was a bit disappointing, but it's kind of steampunky thing, which I was looking forward to. And there were zombies. It seemed like a good mix, but didn't quite deliver. There are a couple of books that follow apparently, which which I'm not in a hurry to read. Vonda McIntyre, Far Future, End of the World Thing was good. Uh and these ratings, by the way, might differ from the ones I gave at the time. I think these are always subjective and always a moment in time uh rating. So there might be something that I rated higher um when I did my monthly review at the time and there might be something that I rated lower at the time but has percolated over the course of the year. So Vonda McIntyre far future sort of dying earth type thing. Um Monkey Planet which is um the source material for Planet of the Apes of course and um that I really enjoyed it. the same basic premise as the as the movie um the Charlton Hester movie but um slightly different um plot fret but same basic idea doesn't have the doesn't have the same killer ending but does have a different killer ending Cathani by Eric Brown sort of a a fix up almost of um short stories or vignettes um which involves um an alien invasion would be the wrong word an alien presence on Earth that offers humanity um an upgrade essentially like takes them away to their home planet for a And all those people come back altered, mainly kinder, but there are those that oppose that for for for reasons. And it's a story of some friends um that gather in a pub in Yorkshire. It's very homely and very well done, I thought. Best of Cordway Smith. Um so cracking stuff. I only read a few of these stories. Um it was a sort of a taster for my um what I thought was going to be an imminent read of Australia, but actually ended up being months later. But um so I'm going to call it Planetary Pleasure. Ashes of Man, book five of Sunny. um didn't hit the heights for me of the first three. Uh it was better than book four, I thought. Um so I'm going to call that a stellar splendor. And then a bit of self-published um space opera, which is a bit of a departure for me. I don't normally read space opera, but um I don't normally read um self-published books um as much of course, but these caught my eye. Um I ended up chatting to the author on Blue Sky and she very kindly sent me um the audio book. So there were no excuses and I really enjoyed it. There are three. I'm going to be maybe a little bit more generous than I was at the time I think. But I um they left a good a good taste in my head if you know what I mean. So I am I think they're good. Greg Bear Hagiraa one of his early novels and for for like 7/8s of it reads like a fantasy quest. Um uh but it gradually becomes clear that they're on some kind of um uh manufactured planet and there are behind the scenes things going on which are revealed. I I I um didn't enjoy as much as I hoped I would honestly. [snorts] Christopher Priest, The Separation. I'm going to give that um Stella Splender. Um a story of twins um and of a a past that might have been tangled with a past that was and and another past that might have been. It's um it's very cleverly done. Um Those Who Resist is the second book in the Way Stations trilogy from NC ScrimJ. I enjoyed those. Really good. some good aliens, some good interactions, a little bit of found family type stuff, which I quite like if I'm um if I'm honest enough to admit it. And then I think we got The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russell, which which some people really hate. And um it it was a bit plotting in places. cuz there was a lot of time spent around the dinner table. But um I [snorts] think that that time spent with what eventually became the crew of the ship going to um rakat or whatever the planet was called um was time well spent because it made the things that happened towards the end of the book, the gut punches that come one after the other um so much more powerful. I think it was um the payoff was worth it for me and I um I enjoyed it. So stellar splender for me. I think uh a rare DNF for me this year. I um it was my sort of New Year's resolution to the extent that I ever bothered doing these things to be more um ruthless about dnfing books and I haven't really done that very often. But Pat Hadigan Sinners, I got about 150 pages through it. Didn't have a clue what the plot was and I couldn't distinguish the characters very easily and decided to call it a day. I gather um that it it um it improved dramatically from that point on. So, I maybe gave it um up too early, but based on my experience so far, I'm going to have to call it a cosmic catastrophe, but I I have resolved to read it again at some point. I'm sure I will probably get something from it the next time. Orphans in the Sky by Robert Heinline is the OG um generationship tale. Uh the first um among them, and this was great fun. I don't think it's galactic gem material, but it was um fun to read the first one. Having read plenty of generation ship tales, um this was a good one. I call it Stella Splender. Hard to be a god. Talking of DNFS. Um this is one that I um DNF hard. I got about 100 pages into it. Decided I absolutely hated it. I gather that the translation I was because this is UK first edition. The translation was from I think Russian to German, German to English, and was a bit stilted as a result. There are better translations directly from Russian to English, which I gather makes a difference. But um I'm very pleased to have a very lovely first edition um on my shelves, but um I'm never going to read the [ __ ] thing again. I didn't like it at all. Cosmic Catastrophe and From the um Sublime to the Ridiculous, Death Stalker by Simon R. Green. And I'm going to have to give this a galactic gem because it was such fun. There are a bunch of books that follow that I haven't read it. Space opera and um uh from the early '9s, if I remember rightly, and Simon Green absolutely throws a kitchen sink at it. It's got um everything you'd want in um in a in a space opera uh with kind of shades of Star Wars to it. And then then to add to the fun, there are vampires and even werewolves too for reasons that you know are sort of legit. Robert Silverberg Downward to the Earth um is a strong um strong Stella Splender. I know it's a bit ridiculous to compare um a Silverberg to um Death Stalker, but that's the jam I'm in at the moment. Um so down there, Stella Splender for me, a tale of redemption. And a man goes back to a planet that he previously did bad things on and um gets um to know the um local wildlife, let's call it the green the green half flumps of the piece um who are more than they seemed to him the first time around. Tom Toner, the promise of the child. This is the first of the Amarantine trilogy and this was [snorts] um very very interesting but very very challenging and from an pure enjoyment point of view it was quite hard work. Um, there was a lot to like. It's very inventive. Um, very creative world building. Um, I found the, uh, plot very difficult to follow. Uh, there's no core to give and you have to figure it all out as you go. Although there is a glossery at the back which is helpful. Um, and I referred to it frequently. Um, and um, I'm really pleased that they put that in otherwise I think um, uh, I would have struggled. It was just a little bit too much like hard work uh to be honest. So um, I'm going to give that planetary pleasure. Gareth Pal's Stars and Bones, one of his um I I initially thought this was his first novel, but it isn't. And I enjoyed um some of the ones that you'll see later in the year more than this one. Sort of zombie apocalypse in space is the best thing best way I can describe it. Um and there's an as a as a malignant alien presence at the back of it. Samuel Ard Delaney. Uh very good space opera. Um a bit sort of new wavy, a bit experimental in its time. Um but um hits some of the space opera high notes. I liked it. Paul McCauley, Secret of Life is a sort of um biology based hard SF book. There's a a section of it set on Mars. Um the Chinese bring something back from Mars messes with our DNA DNA and um bad things are going to result from it and um uh there's a rush to stop it and uh it was pretty good kinetic stuff. Doomsday. Um, I didn't like this as much as the World War II books that followed, uh, what they called, Blackout and All Clear. Um, those, um, I really enjoyed. And the reason I didn't enjoy this as much is that the the two timelines in these books, one in Doomsday, one is in the 14th century. That thread I enjoyed very much. And the thread in the 2060s was a little bit too Keystone Cops for me. And um, and I get frustrated with Connie Willis's insistence on putting barriers in the way of all of her protagonists the whole time. Um, and I think the book could have been quite a lot shorter if she hadn't done that. Um, but still I enjoyed it. So, um, I think, um, I think it's a stellar spender. The Weight of the World is the sequel to The Promise of the Child, and that suffers from the same problems as, um, uh, The Promise of the Child. Uh, really inventive, but really hardgoing. And I haven't yet got to the third installment, the name of which escapes me. Um and um I I just need to gird my loins and build up a bit of um courage frankly to read it again. I I having spoken to Tom Toner earlier in the year about his newer book in under a pseudonym of Casper Gon which we'll come to. Um apparently the third book is the one that people tend to like the most. So I should give it a go at some point. Um Kate Wilhelm uh Where Late the Sweet Bird Sang I found really good. Um it's a uh um sort of post-apocalypse thing. There's a there's a family who are inexplicably wealthy who live in a valley and they um predict the um uh coming fall of mankind and they they start to prep for it and then as a sort of infertility plague basically and they uh conveniently invent a cloning technology um and get busy cloning themselves and it's a story of these kind of clones and this development of their society and then um a couple of people that are rejected from that society and what happens to it. really good, very um very nice uh kind of bucolic writing. A little bit reminiscent of Clifford Sumac in his pomp, I thought. Now then, Yiddish policeman's union um is a uh alternate history in a world where um the state of Israel fails within a year or two of being founded. The Arabs push him into the sea and the Jewish diaspora is given um a small bit of land on the coast of Alaska where it's cold and dark. And they found a city there um the name of which escapes me. Sikka is a city and um and this is a story set in that city and it's a police procedural really with a background of messianic Christians and Jews um with half an eye on the Holy Land again and um but it's main it main joy is for the uh the Yiddish police procedural element of it and the protagonist and his um long-suffering um estranged wife who also happens to be his boss. Uh really well done, really enjoyed the writing. He's a a Pulit surprise winning author and and it shows. I thought definitely a contender for book of the year for me. Holy Machine um it was um a debut novel um from Chris Beckett. It's a tale of a world that's regressed into various forms of religiosity. Science and reason have been um uh sent packing and there's an enclave uh in the Eastern Mediterranean called the city um which [snorts] is the last refuge for um for reason and for science. And we follow a guy that lives there. Um they alone in the world have um pretty realistic robots and of course the most realistic and sexy ones are used as as um sex workers and he um develops a relationship with the sex worker and um things go bad from there and uh but it's really interesting story arc for the sex robot whose name escapes me. Um and um I thought really well done. War of the world classic. Now I um I uh picked that up thinking surely I've read that but when I started reading it the answer was no I haven't read it. the classic tale. You know the story. We're invaded. Um it's in late Victorian era and um clash of this all this advanced technology and um uh you know steam trains and um and it's a story of one man as he flees tries to um to uh escape from being heat raid to death. Fantastic. Absolutely loved it. Stone cold galactic gem. The invisible man I loved less. Um I think I'm going to give that stellar splendor. It was still really good. Um, uh, I didn't find the protagonist very easy to like, and I think that's deliberate. He's a he's a baddie, basically. Um, I reread Helonia Spring this year. Um, I think, um, it's probably Midtable. Um, it was fun to reread it. The first 150 pages are quite slow and then it's definitely the first part of a of a three-part arc. Um, and, um, I I need to go on and reread um, Helonia Summer next, I think. really interesting for the gradual reveal of the symbiotic nature of um and codependent nature of life on Helonia because of the extremely long seasons that come with it orbiting around uh a binary star. There's a short year and a long year. It's very good. The Illustrated Man. Um I read it. I don't remember I remember almost nothing about it, so he didn't stay with me, but I enjoyed it while I was there. So, I'm going to have to call it a punitary pleasure, I think. Christopher Priest, A Dream of Wessix um was wonderful. I thought um very trippy um as the name quite a dreamlike um tone to it which I think is um something that he repeats in a number of his books. Um and it was a story of projection into a virtual reality um uh a predicted future that I thought was wonderfully done and the people that are projected lose track of themselves and they think that their the projection that they're inhabiting is real. And then he he uh messes with your head even further at the end, which I thought was really well done. Now then, Kite World by Keith Roberts. I think this is going to go up on the Galactic Gems here. Um I think I probably rated it Stella Splender before, but I've um I really liked it. Um similar tone to um Pavane, which we'll come to in a minute. um very um melancholic vignettes of stories in this um seems like a UK or an England after some disaster has struck nuclear war probably and uh and the society that's kind of built up around um flying these steampunk kites um which are quite lovingly described in the book and um uh with the uh notion of warding off demons um and we're not really sure what kind of demons it might just be radiation and as detecting them from afar. I don't know. But uh beautifully described um really nice relationships between the people in the books. Um different kinds of relationship I thought really done really well. Let's see. Gwyneith Jones, White Queen. Um so this was a bit of a struggle. It um but in a good way. Gwyneth Jones is another author um based on the one book of hers that I've read so far that doesn't give you um much to go on. You have to build it up as you go. So in this book there's been an alien ali in this book there's been an alien invasion. although it's pretty quiet one, the aliens are able to sort of blend in a little bit despite looking physically quite different to us with no nose for example. Um, a bit like Embassy Town, which we'll come to later. It's a story fundamentally of the um difficulty of communicating with aliens uh who whose mental models are completely different from ours. The way that they think, what they think about, uh the purpose behind the thinking is completely different. And um it's ripe for misunderstanding and um misinterpretation uh with bad consequences. I liked it. Stella Spender for White Cream. Elrich of Mil Nibet was my first Michael Morco. Can you believe it? Um it's a sword and sorcery fantasy book. It was all right. I listened to it on audio book. I meant to go on and listen to a few more, but they um disappeared off of Audible and I didn't want to spend a credit on them. So I'm going to have to wait until I find a few of them in the wild before I read on. Didn't grab me. Uh The Push by Dave Hutchinson. This was fun. It's a novela. Um and the push of the title relates to FTL travel and [snorts] um there was some interesting things in this story about time dilation resulting from that and also waves different waves of um migration to the stars. Uh the later faster ones having overtaken the earlier slower ones and there's some interesting dynamics there. It was good. Uh Ian M Banks against the dark background. I actually didn't like this. It was a reread for me. Um uh but I didn't it didn't gel. It's not a culture novel. It didn't gel with me as well as the re recent rereads of the culture book. So, I'm going to give this it was a high planetary pleasure, but I'm I'm it's certainly better than Bone Shake. We'll put that down there. Captive Universe by Harry Harrison. Um, [snorts] it's Aztecs in Space, and it's initially a bit difficult to understand uh why we're talking about um Aztecs in a science fiction book. That becomes very clear very quickly. And it's very well done. I thought I enjoyed it. Um still, I think just a planetary pleasure. The Carpet Makers by Andreas Eshbach. Um I thought this was really good. I'm gonna give it a stellar splendor. a strange tale um about um a galaxy in which on a particular planet in a particular town in a particular village uh a man is making a hair carpet. It's the work of a lifetime from the hair of his wife and many daughters and um at the request of the emperor. And then we zoom out a bit. We get different vignettes sort of broader scope and scale and we find out that not only is he making a carpet and his son after him, but the entire town is making carpets. And then we get the entire continent is making carpets. than the entire planet and then we find that there are other planets making carpets and the and the reason for this um becomes clear towards the end of the book and it's um it's quite a surprise let me put it that way. Uh Rockhard SF which I don't normally have a problem with but I was so discombobulated by the um the hardness of the SF in this book that I actually didn't enjoy it. There's a plot in there trying to get out somewhere [snorts] um which was quite interesting but um I found it just too difficult um you know despite having a physics degree back in the day. So, I'm sort of predisposed to kind of be okay with a bit of science in my science fiction, but this was too much for me, I'm afraid. So, Cosmic Catastrophe for Greggy. I feel bad saying that, but I think it's just true. Uh, a van vote slan, a bit of a classic. Um, continuing my struggle with some vintage SF, I just didn't find it that great. It's probably a bit harsh to call it a nebulous narrative, but since I haven't put one there yet, we'll use that. Um, so These Burning Stars is the first book of what's now three. The third one is out um in it's out now in fact and um I haven't got it yet. It's a space opera. It's a modern space opera Beth and Jacobs do novel I think. I thought the world building in this was excellent. I I um really appreciated it. I thought the I jelled with the characters. I was vested in um how things panned out for them. There's like a loyalty triangle which is um becomes clearer the the reasons for that as the book progresses. There's a couple of parallel threads. one from back when they were um kids and apprentices and then one one now and then the like I say the the the main characters were quite compelling I thought so I think that's a stellar splender and actually while we're on that subject I'm going to do the same for On Vicious Worlds um a really good um quality um contemporary space opera I liked it in contrast a uh space opera from back in the day the Avatar by Paul Anson I thought this was [ __ ] uh honestly so I'm going to call it a cosmic catastrophe and we'll say no or had the worst written Irish accent that I've ever read in my life. Just appalling. Uh Ursula Gwyn, the lathe of heaven. I'm going to have to call that a Stella Splender and possibly even Galactic Gem. Let's go for it. Um really uh interesting premise. a guy can goes to see a psychologist because um he he needs to he's been told by the court that he must and the psychologist realizes that this guy um can change um reality in his dreams and so he starts to manipulate him um to change reality in a way that suits the psychologist and bad things happen as a result and eventually he he reasserts his agency with a bit of help. Pavane. Uh, this was a classic. Um, it's going to go harder than that. Where we go? Um, let's move deathalk back here. Pavane. Another um really sort of melancholic, wistful um tale of a different England in which Elizabeth the first was um assassinated. The Spanish Armada was successful. The Catholics have been in charge of England and have boss the whole of Europe for for the hundreds of years that have followed. and we follow uh we're in the 1970s I think. Um and um and yeah, it feels really backward. We're using steam engines and uh you know traction engines for for truck transport and um things and we still got castles that are lived in and and used as kind of defensive structures. Um really really really uh evocative vision of um a completely different place um but but with some solid English backbone to it which which I really appreciated. China [snorts] Mavville more aliens and more difficult communication. I'm going to give this a Galactic Gem. Very well done. We can only communicate with these aliens via um a pair of ambassadors um who are trained um from birth essentially to do this job. And then things go quickly pear shape where someone somewhere decides to save a bit of money. instead of training two people, we'll just train one. And um they send the new ambassador and uh pretty much immediately uh this one person speaking on their own causes um just mayhem uh because things didn't work the way that we thought they did. And it's a really good story of things falling apart [snorts] um and uh story of mass addiction and all sorts of other fun and games. Really, really well done. Color of Distance. If you like biology in your science fiction, uh then the color of distance um is a really really good example of that. I think as a woman um researcher is stranded on the planet and she's effectively adopted by the locals who make um some convenient transformations of her um of her inadequate human immune system so that she can survive in the open in this planet and then she gets embedded in their community. It's really well done. Right, let's speed this up a bit. Colossus um maybe one of the OG uh AI stories. Massive computer is um rather foolishly Skynet style given the keys to the strategic nuclear weapons and immediately threatens the humans and the humans try but mostly fail to get back on top again. Uh but it was a bit um paint by numbers. I thought we're going to give it a nebulous narrative. Pushing Ice by Alistister Reynolds. Pretty good stuff. um one of his standalone books, not in the Revelation space universe, and tells the tale of a um comet mining team, which um get draoned into chasing uh one of the moons of Saturn, which suddenly disappears out of the solar system. They happen to be the nearest and the most able. So, they spend some time catching up. They end up getting stranded on this thing and have to build a bootstrap community on this moon. And then the scope of it expands even more greatly in the last third or so. Derek Ken, the quantum magician. I sort of read this by accident. I found it doing a random search in Audible for science fiction and it popped up um uh you know um as part of my membership. So I gave it a read and I really enjoyed it. It's fun. Uh the setting's good. It's um it's got layers if you like a heist. It's like the best thing I can describe as actually is Oceans 11 in space. Um and there's layers of con um that that unpeled as the as the book progresses and it's done really well. The Galaxy and the Ground Within. Um was all right. Um I've enjoyed um you know a few of the Becca Chambers books. Uh this one didn't hit the heights of the um of a closed and common orbit which I thought was the best of them, but it was fine. Um you know, don't mind a bit of cozy SF from time to time. My dirty little book of secrets. Secrets. Is it secrets? Stolen time. My dirty little book of stolen time. So I wouldn't go as far as Stella Spender. I think it's um it's a perfectly fine time travel book. It's um different because it's got a cheeky uh late 19th century Danish prostitute as a protagonist, Tart with a heart, and she's done really well. She ends up in modern London and captures the heart of a um rather stayed city gentleman and it works really well. Um and I thought the descriptions in uh late Victorian Denmark uh were were were brilliant. I really I did enjoy it. Um so um you know there's nothing wrong with a planetary pleasure for me. That's good. Chagger in McDonald, one of a zone book. So, a mysterious zone of strange growth, a little bit reminiscent of um JG Bal's Crystal World um but with I think stronger character work. Uh and um I do like Ian McDonald's writing and this was no exception. I was good. Stella Spender for Jagger. Steven [snorts] Baxter Raft um was not quite what I was expecting. It's his debut novel and it's the first of the Zeli sequence, but there's no evidence of the Zeli in it at all as far as I could tell. So, I'm not sure how it fits in. Um it was a little bit almost young adult to start with I thought and um it didn't quite um I mean I did like it so don't get me wrong I wouldn't I wouldn't want to dissuade you from reading it if you haven't. Um I think if you like Steven Baxter's work then this will this will be an interesting um I mean it's a debut novel right so it's not as polished as some of his later work. Um time like infinity which is the second one which also barely mentions as actually um is um is a better book I think. So, let's call um let's call Raft a um a planetary pleasure and no shame in that. Next is Jack Glass by Adam Roberts and uh uh not a who done it cuz we're told at the beginning who done it. Uh it's Jack Glass that done it, but it's a why done it and a how done it. It's a it's a a nested [snorts] tale with two or three different um time jumps all connected and um people aren't who you think they are and they didn't do what you thought they did. I think it's really good. Stella Spender. [snorts] Then we got The Time Machine by HG Wells, which I enjoyed. I did enjoy. Where have I put um Where have I put Invisible Man? Yeah. Okay, I'm going to move Invisible Man down here as I didn't like it as much as Time Machine. Um so, I think that's fair. I liked I liked War of the Worlds more than I like The Time Machine, which I like more than The Invisible Man. Uh Time Machine's fun. Um yet another book I sort of think I know the story to, but had never read it before. Um really good time travel story. what the probably if not the first then among the first certainly the best known early time travel story [snorts] Neviness was hard work I thought people really like it it's on the now which one is it on it's either on the Pringle list or the broad and deer list I can't remember but um uh and while I appreciated it I admired it I didn't enjoy it that much so I think it's a nebulous narrative for me apparently the trilogy that follows which is set in the same world which was interesting um is um there's a trilogy that follows that set sometime later. I think it's got um the protagonist son as the main character. I forget his name. Uh and apparently those are uh are good books. So I should give those a try at some point. Uh Robert Heinline, the puppet masters. It was um rather dated um alien slow motion alien invasion sort of preceding the body the pod people from the body snatchers. Um people are enslaved by sluglike aliens and control their moves, hence the puppet masters. And it was a bit a bit silly if I'm honest. But um you know it's right diverting reading quicker too. Uh importantly talking of silly uh Lincolnstein um I I would put this at the back end of planetary pleasure I think. So this tells a story um of um it's sort of a mashup between Frankenstein and um Huckleberry Finn. It's the it's the best way I can describe that. So I'll leave that to your imagination. Give it a try. Uh Shan William Sky Inside. It's a short story collection, an author that I didn't know. I only read a few of five or six of the stories. Um some of which are set in the same world as a couple of his novels and it later turned out that I've got a couple of his novels. I just haven't read them yet. So I'll get to those. But [snorts] planetary pleasure. Uh The Passage by Justin Cronin. I listened to this on audio book. Um it's a bit derivative. It's um it's reminded me a lot of the stand. It's got a touch of I am legend to it. It's got a touch of World War Z to it. If you were going to if you were going to if you were going to test a military virus um which had caused um carnage in the in the Bolivian jungle, um who would you choose? Would you choose um you know relatively stable military personnel or would you choose people on death row psychotic murderers as your test material? Well, they chose the psychotic murderers and um bad things happen as a result. It's pretty epic stuff. [snorts] Um there's the immed um immediately and then you jump forward a number of years to um a small settlement u which is fenced in and there's a bunch of rules and a constitution which which are for the safety of the community and the violation of those things will get you chucked over the fence uh and eaten by the results of that military experiment. Let's put it that way. And there's a story uh thread that runs through it of a young girl um and I'll leave it there. There are another two books that follow and the whole span the span of the whole thing covers like a thousand years. I think the span of the first one covers maybe a h 100red years, probably a bit less. [snorts] Uh Bruce Sterling Schizmatrix. Um I really good uh world building. I didn't there's a lot of skip forwards and I found that it's more like um short stories knitted together than a novel. So I'm going to call it a planetary pleasure. Uh the immeasurable heaven by um Casper Geon aka Tom Toner. And this is a standalone space opera. It's set in a galaxy where there are no humans. So, so all of the all of the life there is non-human alien life. Um, and he, so he is quite a trick to pull off to create some characters which are not human, but that you have empathy with. And, um, I think I think he did that pretty well. And it's got some of the same some of the good things from the Amarantine trilogy in terms of its creativity and the world building, but less of the impenetrable plot. Um, it's a bit clearer what's going on. And it wraps up in in 300 pages. it's um it doesn't um over it doesn't outstate what it doesn't outstate its welcome. So looking forward to I think there are more to come from him set in the same um setting uh but but completely different um story lines. The Quantum Thief talking about um needing to work hard for a book. Um so this one paid off for me. Um it's it's really difficult. There's no quarter given. You're thrown in at the deep end. You have to figure things out as you go. It's one of those ones where you're kind of barely hanging on by your fingertips, but you're really enjoying the ride. Um, so I think I would give that Stella Spender. Darwin's [snorts] Radio, Greg Bear. It was all right at the time, but I I remember at the time I reviewed it at the end of the month, I couldn't it was it was so it had no staying power. I couldn't remember what it was about by the time, you know, just a couple of weeks later. Um, it it is about a fertility plague or rather an infertility plague and what we do about it. And uh, it was it was it was it was okay. Um, you know, I've liked a lot of Greg Best. This didn't this didn't hit the heights, I didn't think. Uh, Annibbot by Sierra Greer. This was a relatively recent book from 2024, I think. And, um, I enjoyed it. And, um, it tells the tale of a, um, sex bot called Annie and her owner/boyfriend, um, Doug, who is a massive dick and, um, and is a complete [ __ ] to her. And it's a story of uh her story arc is the interesting element of the book of what she goes through and um uh how she manages to regain some agency from the situation. Uh Adam Roberts the this um not my favorite Adam Roberts. I found the the the philosophical stuff kind of went over my head cuz I'm just not a student of that um thing. This is kind of Hegelian philosophy at the root of this I gather. And um and I did struggle a bit with the the there's quite a lot of kind of staccato jump forwards in the plot which which I I didn't struggle with but um I got whiplash from it a little bit. So I think it's probably at the bottom end of Stella Spender top end of of um of uh planetary pleasure. Pat Murphy the falling woman. Uh again I enjoyed it's a it's mostly fantasy/go story. Um it's set in uh Mexico archaeological dig and it's a story of an estranged mother and daughter and they're rebuilding their uh relationship against the background of um seeing dead people. I'll leave it there. Larry N and Joe Pornell's Football, a classic uh alien invasion tale. Uh I read this a bunch of times in the in the 80s when I was a youth and um I've given it a reread and it was fine. It's um it's a beach read, nothing more. Page Turner, lots of fun, classic alien invasion tale, slightly ridiculous um elephant aliens with a with a rather rigid understanding of the word surrender, which the humans um were not predisposed to agree with. Chris Beckett March, one of his earlier novels. This is a parallel worlds tale. It's told from the perspective of um somebody who's effectively an immigration officer um but but but ends up working with a social worker on a sink estate in a version of Bristol um in the west of England. And we get to see and we get to see some glimpses of life in um parallel worlds which only differ in small respects but it's really well done. So these are immigrants not from other countries but from parallel worlds. So I think um I would call that a stellar splendor. Uh voyage by Steven Baxter. I sort of read this by accident. Um it was one I saw available on Audible so I grabbed it. I've read it before. If you like for all mankind this is an alternate telling of the space race that you probably enjoyed too if you haven't read it. It's really good. Right then Gareth Powell Embers of War. So, this was fun. It's another space opera as a trilogy. Yeah, it's a trilogy of um three three books. It's a space opera. The chief joy of these books is Trouble Dog. Um who's the uh the ship? She's a retired military vessel and they get into all manner of scrapes. And I thought um it was very well done. I enjoyed it that, like I say, the chief joy is troubled dog and but the some of the other characters are pretty good, too. Um and we could probably while we're here, let's do Fleet of Knives. Let's move them all up here. Um, Stella Splender and Light of Impossible Stars. Where's it gone? Um, also Stella Splender. Yeah, good. Um, good space opera fun. Fairly ordinary human beings doing extraordinary things. Right. Short [snorts] story short story collection. Uh, The Cheuring Test Award-winning short story collection, The Cheuring Test by um, Chris Beckett. Um, some of which were really good. Uh there's a couple that are set in the same world as one or two of his novels, the parallel world tale march that we spoke about a minute ago and also a couple set in a strange um virtual version of London which is overlaid the real kind of decrepit decay one which I thought were really good. And it's got the um the OG uh the origin story of Dark Eden. Um, if you've read the Eden trilogy, this is how the humans got to Eden in the first place and why um they got busy uh founding a colony there. Uh, which I thought was pretty good. Upgrade Blake Crouch. It was a confection. I enjoyed it while I was reading it. It was utterly disposable. I've got rid of it. Planetary Pleasure. Nothing wrong with it. You know, it was fun while it lasted. It's a holiday read, really. An airport read. JG Ballard. My gradual um tentative exploration of JG Ballard's work continues uh this year with High-Rise. Um I'm going to give that a stellar splendor. It was interesting. Um I'd seen the movie before, the Tom Hson movie, so half knew what to expect, but I thought the kind of the collapse of society in this in this highrise was and the and the striations of society in this highrise was done uh was done really well. Eiffelheim next by Michael Finn um is sort of a alternate history type thing. um two plot threads. One is set in the 14th century in Germany somewhere and the other is set in our future with some um historians trying to figure out why there's no why there's a gap in the map. Why is there no town in this place where there where there should be a town and um and their research leads them in interesting directions. Then back in the 14th century, we we find out why. And um um an ali an alien ship crash lands next to a medieval village. And so most of the joy in that book is the is the clash and I don't mean military mainly um but the clash of modernity and um and anti antiquity that that occurs as these aliens meet the the locals. Really good. I thought it was fun. Uh stellar splender. Right. What's next? Children of God by Mary Dory Russell. The sequel to The Sparrow. I didn't enjoy it as much as The Sparrow. It was still pretty good but didn't it lacked the gut punches of the Sparrow I thought. So planetary pleasure for Children of God. The Red Scholars Wake. Uh, another contemporary space opera. Um, I like the setting and um, I didn't hate it at all. Um, you know, I liked it, but I didn't love it. It I I felt like it wasn't aimed at me. It was a slow burn romance and that aspect of it didn't really work for me, I'm afraid. Uh but um but if you like that kind of thing uh loveydovey relationship between a woman and the um um virtual avatar of a ship then then crack on it will work for you. A Way Station by um Clifford Simack is next. And you probably know this story, right? It's the story of a guy, simple country guy who's asked by um effectively the transport authority from from some aliens to to man uh the way station which they convert his house. And it's a um it's a rest stop for their for their galactic teleport network. And it's his reminiscences really, his diary entries of aliens he's met over the years, uh friends that he's made, um misunderstandings, um information that has been passed between them. And there's a there's a a bigger scope of um you know, humanity's place in the galaxy and whether we've earned a spot at the top table yet. Um so I think um uh also a planetary pleasure, but for different reasons. books two and three of the Lightseed trilogy by Ken Mloud, which I really enjoyed at the time. Um, I think um I did enjoy them at the time, but I'm going to give them Plantry Pleasure. Uh, I don't know if that's a little bit harsh. They're the they're the Well, I tell you what, let's put them at the top of Plantry Pleasure. Not that this is especially relative, but um I um they didn't quite make Stella Spender for me. I did really enjoy them at the time, but they haven't percolated down the the month since I read them in the in the way that um they probably would need to to to um to land a spot on on Stella Splender. Uh Philip Jose Farmer Day World. Interesting premise. Um the overpopulation has become so intense that and the [snorts] way that that's being handled is you only get to be awake for one day a week and um people share your apartment, you know, so you can have a situation where the Tuesdays left the apartment in a right mess. And then there are people that um I think they're called daybreakers who um uh uh can adopt the persona of um somebody else for the other day of the week. There's what we follow one guy through one week and seven personality changes um so that he can carry messages uh during the week for people who want to change the way that the world's organized. Pretty good planetary pleasure. The Windup Girl. Really lovely world building um by Paulo Bakagalupi. um set in a a future Thailand I in a world where climate change has ravaged kind of crop production and really fascinating world building. That's its chief joy for me. Stella Spender Down below station classic from CJ Cherry. Um uh the I think the foundation book for her Alliance Union series of which there were now many zillions of them. I think this is the first. Uh it's pretty dense. Dense in a good way. It's very detailed and uh it's quite slow build but I appreciated it. I liked it. And as a as an introduction to that Alliance Union universe, I think it worked pretty well. Bob Shaw, Other Days, Other Eyes. Really, really good. Um, I might even put that on Stella Splendor. A set of linked short stories, but set in a world in which there's been an invention called slow glass, which does, as the name suggests, it's it slows down. It doesn't transmit light. It doesn't allow light to pass immediately like normal glass. It slows it down. So, it stops it for a while, and it takes, depending on how thick the glass is, um, it varies the amount of time it takes to pass. All sorts of uses for that slow glass are explored from the mundane to the sinister um in [snorts] the book and I thought it was really good. Uh Carl Schroer. This was hard work um but rewarding um so I'm going to give it similar to Quantum Thief in that um there was no exposition. You just had to figure it out as you go and I'm not sure that I entirely figured it out but I enjoyed the ride as I was there and um I really want to go on and read more of his work. It's actually a little bit difficult to tell. I think this is Frankenstein um but I'm not 100% sure. I don't recognize the cover. Uh, I listen to an audio book. I don't actually possess a cover. And I thought this was um unbelievably whiny and I didn't like it. I basically didn't understand what all the fuss was about. Maybe I was in the wrong mood. Um, it was um a whiny narrator and uh the protagonist is whiny, the monster's whiny. There's a whole lot of [ __ ] whining going on and I didn't appreciate it at all. So, I'm going to give it um do you know what? [ __ ] it. I'm going to go on um Nebulous narrative and I don't care what you think. Next was Carla's Choice, which is not science fiction at all, but I read it so it counts. Um this is a uh revisiting of um the world of George Smiley. Nick Harkway is David Cornwell or John Larry's son and he um this was the first of what I think is going to be several um books set in that sort of smiley cold war era and I really enjoyed it. Stella Splender really good. HD Worlds The Island of Dr. Maro. I liked this about as much as I liked Yeah, I like this about as much as I like the Invisible Man. Maybe a bit less. Uh Siege of Burning Grass by Premium Muhammad. I really like this. I think I'm going to put that up here on Stella Splendor. It was a tale of a pacifist in a time of war and the extent to which he could justify that pacifist position um when um to act uh against his beliefs would result in a greater good. So uh to avoid the to cause death for example or injury in the process of saving um future misery for millions. Um really well done. very interesting world building, very interesting character study uh with um with the pacifist and his kind of almost his polar opposite and and their collaboration as it turns out um on on on a secret mission. Very very good. Uh Pastw Watch by Awson Scottard, a kind of alternate history thing/timetravel. Um it's features Christopher Columbus um and a uh a world in which it's possible to change the time stream. Um something not something you want to do very often. It's quite a drastic step to take because it completely erases the time stream from that point on and it rebuilds. So, um if you're party to that change, then you're effectively erasing everything that you know. [snorts] Um but um interesting some interesting things going on there. Quite a lot of it is just the history of Christo Christopher Columbus trying to get funding for his mission. And there's quite a bit set in South America preparing for their arrival that I quite liked. Adrien Tchaikovsky's uh Shroud book from this year 2025. I really enjoyed it. Uh it's um I think one of his strengths is describing um alien or very different ecosystems and I thought that was done really well in this book. I really enjoyed it. Mirror Shades, a cyber punk short story collection. I um the standout one was from Mark Ladlaw um which I was so um entranced by although I didn't understand what the hell was going on. I bought a couple of Mark Lelaw books. Completely batshit. Starman Jones by Heinline. It was pretty disposable. It's one of his juveniles. a kid um turns out to to have the makings of a um of a starship captain pretty much immediately. Little bit silly. Triple Dayton again was all right. Planetary pleasure. Uh the sea and summer by George Turner which um tells a story of future in which um Melbourne has been inundated by rising sea levels and uh the economy has gone to pot as has the economy of the rest of the world. [snorts] And um it's a story of the halves and the have nots and do the halves really have or is it the haves that actually have cuz they have community and and the halves really don't. Um I really liked it. It's top end of Stella Splender for me. Really good beautiful writing. Next is Cyber Bad Days by Ian McDonald which is a short story collection uh of which I read the first five or six. Um I don't always feel compelled to finish a collection or an anthology cuz they're distinct stories. Um but this is a pretty well garlanded short story collection. It's got several award winners, including um at least one Hugo award winner with um the Jyn's wife, which is really good. Stella Splender, uh CS Friedman, this Alien Shaw, again, I really enjoyed. Um, it's a space opera of sorts with a lot of neurodeiverse characters for for legit sci-fi reasons which are which are and it's a kind of a cyberpunky space opery uh chase movie type thing um with a with a teenage girl as a protagonist which I know will be offputting for some of you but um I um I thought that worked really well. John Sanford and Katine Saturn Run. Um, elements of it were really good, but it dragged a bit and I thought that the Chinese characters at the end were very wooden. So, I'm going to give it Planetary Pleasure. Kurt Vonagut Galapagus. Um, a tentative re-entry into the world of Vonagut. I didn't enjoy Sirens of Titan at all. I like this a lot better. So, I'm going to give this a solid planetary pleasure. All the Fiends of Hell. This was awesome. Um, I'm going to put this up the top here. Uh it's a clash between uh the day of the tripffids and what I understand the movie the quiet place to be about although I haven't seen that but essentially it's set in the west of England. We follow a no hopeer um whose name I forget Carl I think it is um who is one of the few that haven't been sucked up into into who knows where by the red lights that appear in the sky. Hence the day of the truth reference. And then um he um ends up being um compelled to look after two children, a brother and sister, who are terrified obviously, and he ends up being the closest thing they have to a parent figure after theirs have disappeared. And then they end up getting mixed up with some other guy who's um a bit of a bullshitter and doesn't really know what he's doing. But the s it's not it's not like gory or blood curdling, but it's a there's a growing feeling of dread as the book goes on. There are some jump scares in it as well, but it's really done very well. And uh I um I loved it. I haven't I've not read anything else by um Adam Neville. I think he primarily writes horror and this is horror but it's got a science fiction edge to it because of the aliens. Nancy Cresburg is in Spain. Another book that I really enjoyed. I'm going to have to put that up here as well. Um Galactic Gem tells the story of what would happen if you didn't need to sleep. Um if we we remove the requirement to have a refreshing sleep and you could power through for 24 hours no problem and what advantages would occur to people that were genetically altered in that way. And it's told through um one family who um have twins, one of whom has been genetically modified, the other hasn't. So one's sleepless and one isn't. One's a sleeper. Um so that's quite a nice microcosm of that dichotomy. It's done really well. It's first Nancy Crest book that I've read actually and I really enjoyed it. And there are two more that follow which I've subsequently acquired but haven't yet read. There's the um third part of the um Way Station trilogy that I thought I'd picked up before. So let's put that up there with the rest of them. Pretty good stuff. Neil Asha Cal cosmic catastrophe. Um it was well diabolical way too long. Uh you could have cut half of it out. It was a bit difficult to follow. It's a time travel story. [snorts] Um and um it's just interminable. Awful book. I didn't like it. And I have enjoyed um the I've read four or five Neil Asher books back in the day where the the um first few the Cormarmac the agent Cormarmac books which I really enjoyed at least I did at the time. And um and this was the first one of his I read for ages
