[1] The 10 BEST BOOKS I Read in 2025 | Fantasy Romance, Dark Romance & More — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pCCRACgRB0

Hi guys. It's Jess from Honest Fiction and welcome back to my channel. In today's video, I'm sharing my top 10 favorite books of 2025. All right, guys. It is finally time to share the 10 best books that I read in 2025. Now, like I have said in other videos, 2025, it was rough. It was a rough year, but I did have some absolutely amazing reads. Some of these are like top reads of all time. Now, there is also a very wide range of genres. We have mostly romance and fantasy romance, but then also a dark academia high fantasy, a young adult fantasy, multiple Y choose, a random dark romance that's kind of thrown in there. So, honestly, all over the place, but I love these books so so much. And like all of my other best of the year videos, I could not narrow it down to 10. So, I do have five honorable mentions that I'll kind of share in the beginning and give a very brief spoiler-free plot synopsis of those. And then I will dive in to my top 10. I do have them in order from number 10 to my absolute number one favorite book of the year. And it was difficult. It was a really hard choice to make and I'm still not exactly sure if I'm like confident in it. But, with all that out of the way, if you're unfamiliar with my channel, I post new videos every Wednesday and Sunday. If you haven't yet, please like and subscribe. You can also hit that notification bell to be notified whenever I post new bookish content. You can also check out my Instagram, Goodreads, and Patreon. I'll link down below. With all that out of the way, let's talk about my favorite books of the year. All right, guys. So, starting off with my five honorable mentions. Now, these are five books that I at one point thought to be in my top 10 list, but other books ended up taking their spot. So, I'm just going to briefly go through all five books, kind of give you an idea of what they were about, and then explain why they didn't exactly make the top 10. So, first up, we have Servant of Earth. I read this in December, so I am going to talk about this more in depth in my December wrap-up that I'm literally about to film after this video. Now, I picked this up after one of my Patreons, Aaron, recommended it. And oh my gosh, this book is so fun. So, the best way I can pitch this is if you have read A Court of Thorns and Roses, it is essentially Feyre under the mountain for an entire book. It's just this girl who is forced to be with these like evil fae and has to compete in these trials, and she has no idea who to trust, who's an ally, who's a friend, and who's actually out to get her. It deals with elemental magic, and I really enjoyed it. The reason it is not going on my top 10 list is it actually had a few too many similarities to A Court of Thorns for me personally. I felt like some parts were a little bit predictable, but I'm 100% reading the sequel and really really enjoyed this. I gave this 4.5 stars, so highly recommend. Next up, we have To Cage a Wild Bird. I loved this book. It is a dystopian story about this girl who ends up, in order to save her younger brother, going to this jail where the wealthy hunt inmates for sport. So, it's horrifying. Now, I loved almost everything about this book. Pacing was perfect. There was so much action. It was a little bit more violent than I was expecting. My biggest issue was one, I wanted way more of the romance. It felt a little bit instalove to me. And also, I didn't love the ending. I kind of wanted a little bit more. It just ended kind of abruptly and I was expecting more. So, that's why this didn't make the list. Then, we have Silver Elite, which honestly, probably because it is a dystopian romantasy, reminds me a lot of To Cage a Wild Bird. The reason this did not make the list is honestly, I forget 90% of this book. So, the main part that I do remember is we're following this girl named Wren, who lives in a world where having psychic abilities equates to a death sentence. She does something where she is found out for potentially having these abilities, so she has to go to this certain academy, and she decides she is going to try to take down this enemy regime from the inside. And then she ends up meeting a certain guard, and things progress from there. So, honestly, I just forget a lot of this book, and I feel really odd putting a book in my top 10 if I don't remember a lot of the plot. So, that is why that did not make it. Then, these last two might be a bit of a shock. So, one we have Direbound. I did love this book. I thought it was so so well done. And if you're unfamiliar with Direbound, it is From Blood and Ash, but switch out the dragons for direwolves. It's very similar plot. We're just following this girl as she tries to find her younger sister. She believes the only way she's going to be able to do that is to join this army, not realizing this happens to be the year the army is going to have this magical kind of trial where if you win, you are matched with a direwolf. And that's our main character, who then has to deal with being matched to this wolf that seems to absolutely hate her while all she is trying to do is find her sister. And it was so good. I wanted so much more of the romance. And the romance and the scenes that we did get, I could have lived without. And it's very hard to do explain why without giving away a lot of spoilers, but if you read the book, you probably know what I mean. So, that is my biggest gripe with this, but I can not wait for the sequel. And last up is Anathema by Carrie Lake. Honestly, I loved everything about this book. It is creepy, it is gothic, it is eerie, and it was so much fun to read. There were just a few other books on this list that I preferred a little bit more. If you have not read Enathema or Anathema, I always get the pronunciation wrong. It's following this girl that was left outside this malevolent wood, and she's grown up in this very like patriarchal community where if anyone does anything bad, they are sent to this wood and never seen or heard from again. Her adopted sister ends up being sent to this wood, and our main character, Maeve, is like, "No, I have to protect her." Follows her into the wood, and instead of dying, she ends up in this mysterious realm where she runs into an assassin known as the scorpion, and it's their romance, and it's so good. But, once again, check trigger warnings. Carrie Lake is notorious for writing SOME LIKE KIND OF messed up imagery, but I loved this. So, honestly, the only reason this did not make the top 10 is because I liked the other books on this list just a little bit more. All right, guys. So, moving in to my top 10. At number 10, we have a very very recent read, the Ironside Academy series by Jane Washington. Now, this, I know, is an entire series, not just one book, but I could not pick just one. I'm also technically not finished with this series yet. I still have one book to go, but I binged five books in the course of three days, and that has not happened since The Legacy of the Gods series by Rina Kent earlier this year. But, honestly, this is my new favorite Y choose of all time. I never in a million years thought a Y choose with 10 different guys would somehow be one of the best character-driven and like fleshed out character development Y choose books I've ever read. Like, these guys, I love so much, and they are all so so unique, and I do not know how this author was able to do that with 10 of them. There is 10 guys in this Y choose. I know I keep saying that, but it's just absolutely blowing my mind how much she made each one of these characters have such distinct personalities. So, the premise of this entire series is absolutely wild. We're following this girl named Isabelle, who is a sigma. Now, I don't think this is technically omegaverse, but it does have some omegaverse tropes and like aspects. Anyway, she is a sigma, which means she is not like the highest up in the hierarchy. Alphas are highest. And she has to go to this school, Ironside Academy, which is set up like a reality TV show where there are cameras everywhere where people are competing to be like the number one dancer or singer or things like that. So, she is going and she wants to become a dancer. However, she starts to attract the attention of a bunch of alphas, and they're very dangerous because they have these certain abilities that are very scary. And also, there's a whole meat component at play, and you guys can probably figure out what's going to happen with her and the 10 alphas. But, oh my gosh, this series is so so addicting, and it's unlike anything I've ever read. So, please, if you have not picked up the Ironside Academy series, the first book being Plie, I believe I called it Plier in numerous videos, but it is Plie. I highly recommend. It is so so good. And coming in at number nine, we have The Night in the Booth by Rachel Gillig. This was one of my most anticipated reads of the year, it did not disappoint. The writing in this is so lush and descriptive. It is perfectly gothic and eerie, and I loved the characters and the pacing. There is also a side character in this or a like animal companion, gargoyle companion, that is my favorite of any side character I have read this year. I would lay down my life for this gargoyle. He is absolutely fantastic. Now, if you have not read this book, we are following Sybil, and Sybil is a diviner. Meaning that when she was very young, she agreed to become a diviner in exchange for staying at this cathedral for the rest of her life. So, as a diviner, she receives prophetic dreams from these god-like beings known as omens, which is essentially when they drowned this girl and she's able to see the future. So, not the most fun job to have, but it does give her a place to live. So, anyway, her time as a diviner is slowly coming to an end, but other diviners begin going missing. Now, Sybil is desperate to find out what has happened to them, so she seeks the help in a reluctant knight who agrees to try to track down the other diviners, and together they go off on this adventure accompanied by the cutest gargoyle on the planet. So, once again, I absolutely love this. I will say I've read other books by this author and have not loved them quite as much. So, I was surprised, honestly, at the amount that I enjoyed this story, but oh my gosh, I need the sequel immediately. And at number seven, we have Bonds of Hercules by Jasmine Mass. Now, let me start by saying, is this book an absolute literary masterpiece? Hell no. The writing leaves a lot to be desired. There are definitely plot holes and issues. Was this book unbelievably fun? Also, hell yes. I had a great time with this book. So, if you are reading this book strictly based off having a fun time and vibes, five-star read. But, I know this is not going to be everybody's cup of tea, and I totally get that. Personally, I thought the humor in this book was so so good, somehow better than the first book. There are some one-liners from a certain snake that I was cackling, like so unbelievably good. If you are unfamiliar with the Blood of Hercules series, this is the second book. First book is Blood of Hercules, we're introduced to Alexis. She lives in a world where Titans have taken over. The only beings able to stop the Titans are the Spartans, the children of the gods. Alexis finds out that she is part Spartan. She is whisked away to a Spartan war college where she has to fight to the death, and if she survives, she will be granted a Spartan mentor who will teach her how to kill the Titans. Now, like I said in my last like best of the year video, cuz Blood of Hercules was one of my top reads of last year, all of the love interests in this are straight-up villains and the most unhinged kind at that. But, what I loved about this book in particular is we actually got to see them try to show emotion and show they care about somebody, and they just do it so so badly. So, like most of their attempts at showing affection involve like maiming or death. And there's also some new pet companions and sidekicks that are introduced that I loved. So, that along with the humor and the vibes, that is why this is at my number seven spot. And I just realized I completely mixed up my order. So, Bonds of Hercules was actually number eight. And at number seven, we have The Scattered Bones. This book is both haunting and beautiful, and I love it so so much. I have talked about this book a lot in past videos, but if you're unfamiliar with the plot, do yourself a favor and just read this book. It is very short, and oh my gosh, it's so good. But, we're following this girl named Sylla, and we find out at the very beginning that Sylla has been chosen to be a vessel for a god. So, she has to remain very pure. This is dual POV, so we're following Sylla during this timeline, but in an alternate timeline, we are learning that Sylla's greatest love has been brutally killed, and his body parts have been spread across the realm and are being guarded by these vengeful gods. So, Sylla is introduced to a stranger who tells her, "Hey, if you're able to locate all of your loved one's body parts, I'll be able to bring him back together." So, Sylla sets out to do this, but while she is going through these dangerous trials, we are also watching her fall in love with this thief. So, it has this like very upsetting tone to it the entire time because you're watching these two people fall in love knowing inevitably that his body is going to be spewed all over the realm. So, I loved this book, but it is also a book I probably will not be reading again anytime soon. It's a really hard book to read, but also, once again, just so beautiful, and the writing is written in such a way that you can picture everything just so easily. And it feels like you have read an entire series when you are done this, and it is such a short and quick read. So, highly highly recommend. And at number six, we have Sunrise on the Reaping. I never in a million years would have thought a young adult fantasy would make it onto this list. I honestly have not been reading young adult very often over the last 2 years. But, I grew up with The Hunger Games. I read the books back when I was in college. I saw all the movies. So, when I heard this was releasing, I wanted to give it a try. Now, I had read the previous like somewhat new release in this series from President Snow's POV, and I thought it was okay. I wasn't like wowed by it. Oh my gosh, this book just tore my heart out and stomped on it over and over again. I It took me a very long time to recover from this book, only for me to then listen to it with my husband and have to relive the trauma all over again. But, if you have not read this, one, please do yourself a favor and read this book. It is my favorite book I think in the entire Hunger Games series. It is so so well done, and I feel like it is so relevant to just today's times in general. But, we are following Haymitch Abernathy, and he ends up being reaped in the I think it's the 50th Hunger Games, where it's a quarter quell, meaning they have different rules. So, in this one, they end up picking two boys and two girls from every district instead of one from each. And it's him trying to survive his games, and we get to see how Haymitch went from how he starts out in this book to the character that we know in the actual Hunger Games. And oh, it is so so heartbreaking and really showcases how media manipulation can play a big role in certain events, and it was just I absolutely loved this book. I am not ready to see a movie version. I just can't imagine how upsetting some of these things are going to be like played out in a theater. But anyway, I absolutely love this, and that is why it is my number six spot. All right, and we have made it to the top five. So, just know from here on, this list was nearly impossible for me to put together, and honestly, I changed the order of these books like six or seven times. So, at number five, we have The Night Prince, which is the sequel to The Wolf King. I fully thought this book was going to be in the top three. I just have slightly more of an emotional connection to the other books I'm about to talk about. This was a five-star read and one of the best books I've read by far this year, hence why it is number five. But, oh my gosh, I really have no critiques or complaints about this book. I just read so many amazing reads this year that that is why this is at number five. But, if you have not read this, it is the sequel to The Wolf King. The Wolf King being essentially A Court of Thorns and Roses set in the Outlander world where we're following this girl who is forced into an arranged marriage against her will, and her intended makes her go to these werewolf fights, although he knows that she has no interest in going. So, when she gets there, she sees this alpha werewolf being forced to kill a younger werewolf, and she ends up putting a stop to it. And this catches the attention of the alpha werewolf, Callum. So, later that night, Callum is able to sneak out of the dungeon, and he kidnaps the princess, our main character, and takes her to the wolves, which ignites an entire war between the humans and the wolves, and it really goes from there. But, this second book is where the story really begins to shine. I couldn't put this book down, and I love that feeling of reading a book where like you're just so sucked in and zoned in that you have no idea what's going on around you. And that's how I felt while I was reading this. So, I need book three to release immediately. I know this just got picked up by a trad publisher, so it's probably delayed, but oh my gosh, this series is so so good. At number four, we have Releasing Ten by Chloe Walsh. I feel like this might ruffle some feathers. So, let's get this out of the way. If you're unfamiliar with Releasing Ten, it is the sixth book in the Boys of Tommen series by Chloe Walsh. This series is the best contemporary romance series I've ever read in my entire life, but also it has been mis-marketed as young adult, not by the author, just by publishers and whatnot. This is not a young adult series, although it does feature younger teenage characters. This book is very upsetting. This series overall just deals with such upsetting and triggering topics. Please check the trigger warnings before you go into any of these books. Now, also on top of all of that, I will say the author of this book, I think, is one of the bravest women, and I really do feel slightly defensive of her, so please be nice in the comments. I don't mind. I'm pretty good at letting like negative comments go over my head. However, when it comes to Chloe Walsh, I feel like she just deserves so much more love than she's really received. These books have really showcased certain mental health, and there are characters in this that I feel like haven't been written the way that she is able to write them because she is coming from a place of personal experience, and I feel like the issues that she tackles, she tackles very well. Once again, that is personally my opinion. You are free to have your own, but I really, really admire Chloe Walsh, and I think she is a fabulous writer. Now, on more of like a happy note, although once again, this series is unbelievably traumatic and sad. The first two books of the Boys of Tommen series are following Johnny and Shannon. Then the next two books are following Joey and Aoife. God dear, my favorite couple on the planet. Oh my god, I love them so, so much. Then, the fifth book is a standalone following Claire and Gibsie. I am not a fan of that book. I think that is the one book where things could have been handled so much better than they were handled, and that brings us to Releasing Ten, which is one of the top books I read this year. So, once again, let me say, because I have had people commenting saying I do not say this enough, and I think I say it constantly, please check the triggers before you go in to this book. It is a very upsetting book dealing with very upsetting topics. Things happen on page that are honestly hard to read. This book gave me a stomach ache while I was reading it. Know that. So, we are following these two students, Lizzie and Hugh. So, up until this point of this series, we have assumed Lizzie is just very hard. She's very closed off. She seems very kind of mean to her friends. We don't exactly realize why. This book really kind of opens our eyes to what has caused this, or what Lizzie has been going through. So, Lizzie was diagnosed as having bipolar disorder at a young age, and she really has not had a support system besides her best friend's older brother, Hugh. Now, when Hugh was very young, he saw Lizzie and immediately was like, "That's my girl. I love her. I'm going to do everything I can for her." And we are just watching these two people that we know love each other have to navigate these events and things that are so, one, outside their control, but also they're young. They're teenagers. They don't know the right things to do. And it's just so heartbreaking watching this, but also you're rooting for them. Now, I will also point out, I assumed because the book previous or prior to this was a standalone, that this would also be a standalone, and that is not the case. This does not feature an HEA. So, know that when you start, there is a sequel that will be coming out hopefully soon that ends Lizzie and Hugh's story. But, oh my gosh, I will read anything Chloe Walsh writes. I love this series so much. And at number four, to absolutely nobody's shock, we have Dawn of Chaos and Fury, the fourth and final book in the Legacy series by Melissa K. Walsh. Now, I've talked about this book in pretty much every video this year. I love this series. Honestly, the entire series is probably at this spot. I did read most of the books last year, but I reread them this year with my patrons, and this series just holds such a special place in my heart. Now, I will say this is probably one of the best conclusions to a series I have ever read. I finished out a lot of fantasy romance series this year, and this book was somehow able to tie up all of the loose ends, while also kind of teasing what is next in the Chaos verse, and I am so excited. Now, if you are unfamiliar with the Legacy series as a whole, we are following Tessa, and Tessa lives in a world where the gods granted favor to their children, the Legacy. The Legacy rule over the Fae. Tessa, our main character, is a Fae, and when it is time for her to be chosen, she is chosen to become the personal source to the heir of Endings, a title that she did not think she would receive. Because she is going to have a forced mating bond placed upon her. They're tattoos that allow this heir to sense when she's near, feel her emotions, and they will become physically attracted to each other. So, everything is out of Tessa's control, and really most of this book is just watching Tessa try to gain the confidence to come into herself, gain autonomy, and stop being used as a pawn by literally every single person she comes in contact with. So, it really also plays around with chaos versus control. The mental health rep in this is so, so well done. Our main character grapples with depressive episodes, also intrusive thoughts, and I just thought they were handled very, very well. Everything about this series I love. So, also it does play around with captor-captive, so if you're sensitive to that, maybe avoid the series. It's also urban fantasy as opposed to high fantasy, but for some reason, as someone who doesn't love urban fantasy, I I love this series so much. And I wanted to take this time, if you do not follow me on socials, my patrons and my friends were so incredibly sweet and actually sent me the traveling Honest Fiction book, which happens to be Reign of Shadows and Endings, my favorite book. And they all signed it, and they actually sent this book all over the country, and everyone signed it and wrote messages. I even have messages from my friend from Spain, Isa from Fantasy Books, Mike from Hannah, Hannah Blackwell, April, Happily Ever April, just so many other content creators, but then also so many of my friends that I've met through Patreon, and I'm so incredibly thankful. This is honestly one of my most treasured possessions of all time. Um, Carrie from Book for Romance, I don't know if I remembered to say your name, but I I love this so much. So, if you guys are watching, thank you. This meant the absolute world to me, and I am going to treasure this book forever. And my second favorite book of 2025, God of Fury by Rina Kent. Now, I believe this is the fifth book in the Legacy of the Gods series, or their fifth. But, oh my gosh, Brandon and Nikolai, I love them. I need them to be as happy as can be for the rest of their lives. They literally went through it in this book to get their HEA. I'm obsessed with them. So, I ended up binging the entire Legacy of the Gods series completely on a whim early in 2025. I just happened to read God of Malice, and was hooked. Then I got to this book. This book made me laugh. It made me sob uncontrollably. It made me violently angry. It evoked every emotion you can possibly think of, and I still I still think about this book all over the time. So, if you're unfamiliar with the Legacy of the Gods series, it's kind of like a new adult academia dark series. We're following these students at two rival universities, and one seems to be comprised of children from the mafia. The other one is comprised of children from very rich people that do very bad things. And they're supposed to hate each other, but they all end up in relationships with each other. And this book is no different. We are following Brandon and Nikolai. Brandon is the son of someone, I'm pretty sure, from possibly not the mafia. He is the son of someone who's very influential. His brother, twin brother, is a complete psychopath, and he is very regimented and controlled. He needs to be in control. Then you have Nikolai. Nikolai is a Russian, I think he's the son of an enforcer. He hates clothes. He's very flamboyant and open about just loving everybody, and he decides that he's going to have a huge crush on Brandon, and is going to make it Brandon's problem. So, it's mostly at the beginning of this book just Nikolai annoying the out of Brandon until Brandon finally accepts that, "Hey, I might really like this Russian guy." and gives it a try. And then they have the most epic romance of them both helping to heal each other and it has a bit of that like grumpy sunshine dynamic, but also they're two slightly broken people that do need each other to heal and I just I loved their romance. And then there's this like pivotal scene at the end that is so Oh my gosh, it is so it's so good. So please, if you have not read Legacy of the Gods, once again, incredibly dark, check your trigger warnings, but this book in particular god tier. And my top book of 2025, Blood Over Bright Haven by M. L. Long, which honestly isn't surprising when you think about the fact that last year my top book of the year was Sort of Kaigen by the author. This author is able to evoke emotion like no other. This Sort of Kaigen is still one of the most beautiful and heart-wrenching books I've ever read and it is a book I will go back to when I am feeling brave enough. This book, while not quite as heart-wrenching, evokes a level of anger that I don't think I've felt ever before while reading a book like while Sort of Kaigen really does pull at your heartstrings and really kind of showcases family and perseverance, this book really has not a more negative tone, but it will frustrate you and I was just enraged after I finished this book, but if a book can make me feel that way, I feel like it has to be one of the best books I've ever read. So, this is definitely a book that one is unbelievably relevant to today's society, but also is a book that I feel like it is best to go into almost completely blind. When I started this book, I legit thought it was a book about vampires. I was completely off base. So, the best way I can describe this is we are following this girl named Seona who lives in a utopian walled-off community that uses a certain form of magic. And she is the first women woman that is admitted to this high magistracy. So, she is just trying to prove herself and she has dedicated her life to prove that women are not inferior to men and that she can use magic just as well as they can. Well, getting admitted into this program is just the first step because she soon realizes everyone is still out to get her and they end up pairing a janitor with her instead of a lab assistant. So, Seona says that this is just another obstacle she's going to overcome and together her and this janitor are going to try to solve this whole magical problem that they are all trying to uncover before everybody else. And that is really where the plot sets up, but it is so much more than that and once again, it will frustrate you. I know I've talked with a lot of my friends about this book and a lot of them were not crazy about the ending. Personally, I think the ending is brilliant and I love the way this book ends, but I completely understand that it will probably frustrate a lot of people that read it. So, this is another book that I feel like might not be for everybody, but I just felt like it was so incredibly powerful and I loved the story and the message and it is it is an amazing read. So, M. L. Long, oh my god, best author, so so good. Um, but definitely, if you have not read this, I think it is very much worth picking up. All right, guys, that is it for my top books of the year. I feel like towards the end the books got really emotional, so sorry for that kind of like tone shift, but overall, I loved all of those books so so much and I would love to hear what are your top books of the year, so please let me know down in the comments below. And I'd like to say a very special thank you to my Paladin Protectors, Amanda, Leslie, Christie, Cat, Latta, Nerdy, and Amanda J. Thank you guys so so much for supporting my channel. And I said this already, I post two videos every Wednesday and Sunday. And if you haven't yet, please like and subscribe. I will see you all next week. Bye.
