[1] The Best Books of 2025 (According to your Favourite Booktubers) — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TbUK9HTP7IA

These are the best books of 2025 according to your favorite booktubers. Take it away, Ian. Ian, what's up, mate? You know it's that time of the year again. You know what to do. Yes, I do. H I've got just the thing. James Clell's Shogun. There are no words that I could muster that could describe the epic proportions of this book. This book is so epic. Dare I say it's more epic than the entirety of the genre of epic fantasy. This book is about a merchant ship coming out of the Netherlands manned by an English captain named John Blackthornne. They are caught up in a Pacific storm and crash land in Japan. But not just any old Japan. We're talking 17th century feudal Japan. It's the age of the samurai, baby. Blackthornne and crew must navigate a culture that is far removed from the one that they know back in England and in Europe amidst a bloody struggle between factions of samurai classes. This book is a tremendous clash of cultures. Empires vying for as much land as they possibly can grab. Characters swept away in love and war. The pros is magnetic. Pavll paints such a broad picture in such a vivid way. The characters are among some of the most complex characters I've ever read. And at the end of it all, this story was so impactful. I finished this in January, Johan. I finished this in fetching January and I can't stop thinking about it. So, this is a six stars out of five. Everybody needs to read this. If I've not convinced you to put this on your 2026 TBR, then I am a failure as a book content creator. Did I get everything out? Thank you so much, Johan, for having me be a part of this yet again. I always love being a part of these annual videos. Good luck to everybody else and their recommendations. I'll see you next year. Hi, I'm Tim, better known as HelloFuture Me on YouTube. And my favorite book of 2025 completely blindsided me. came out of nowhere and it is J AJ Minton's discovery and the reason I love this book is because I basically cannot describe it to you and I want to tell you how it came to me. I do this thing where if I see someone completely raving about a book online in ways that they're just like, "Hey, you need to read this book. I can't even get describe it to you. You just have to check it out. It is weird." Especially if the book is weird and strange. Then I pick it up and that has never led me wrong. And this one, I just saw a vague tweet of someone raving about it. I picked it up and boy, yeah, it's incredible. It is bizarre and strange, but it's amazing. It's about what humanity does in the face of an impending apocalypse. It's about uh a submarine discovering an underground ancient city, except it's not really about any of that. It's about uh a journalist who becomes the worst version of herself. It's it's not really about that. It's about uh you know, what does it mean to create AI? Except it's not really about that. It's about uh you know cosmic horror and ancient entities and where humanity came from and our place in the universe. It is amazing and I cannot recommend it enough. I will absolutely be picking up the sequel. It is so many things all at once and I've rarely seen a book handle so many perspectives uh so well all at once, especially because every single perspective is just electrifying to read. The characters leap off the page. Uh it is it is mesmerizing. I would say go check that out. Hey guys, my name is Becca from Becca and the Books and my favorite book of 2025 is The Night and the Moth by Rachel Gillig. The thing that I'm continuously loving about Rachel Gillig is that her books feature very common tropes and themes delivered in a unique way with a very delicious atmospheric writing style. This is the story of Cibil, who is a diver that has to team up with a heretical knight to track down her diver sisters that throughout the beginning of this book go missing one by one. It is a story of loss and longing as we follow Syibble who goes out into this world that she's never experienced to track down the only people who have ever mattered to her. And what she discovers will destabilize her entire life forever. While I expected the longing and the yearing that this book definitely delivers, what I did not expect was the humor provided by Cibil herself, who is incredibly feisty, but also her gargoyle sidekick Bartholomew. And I think that this is very much heightened in contrast to the sadness that underpins this entire novel. Trust me guys, you will fall in love with The Night and the Moth, but be warned, it will also break your heart. Here's Johan hitting us with the illegal question once more. What is your favorite book of the year? Now, I'm kind of tied between two, but because I really got into this series this year, I'm going to have to go with Demon in White, the third book in the Sun Eater saga. This was the year where I started Suneater. And while I'm not quite up to date yet, Demon and White has been my favorite so far. I'm just so impressed with this series, in particular, this book. It was such a good time. I am so impressed how Christopher can create such a massive scale world but also make it really deep and interesting to learn more about. This is a space opera epic and it really does feel epic when you're reading it. I love the philosophical ideas involved. I love all the character work and it's just really a joy to sink your teeth into. It's one of those series that I just love picking up and reading a couple chapters of just being sucked back into this world and following Hrien's story. And yeah, I think this was the best one so far. So, it's very unlikely you've not heard about the Suneater Saga, but if you've yet to pick it up, I highly, highly recommend checking this series out. I'm still waiting on the cooking scenes, but I'm sure they'll turn up. Hello, my name is Jonathan Conn, and my favorite read of 2025 was Once a Hero by Michael A. Stackpole. This is a fantasy standalone novel that is about this uh character who's kind of influenced by like Conan the Barbarian, but the writing style is also very much influenced by the kind of Robert Jordan 1990s era. And then it's also got some interesting storyline with the elven characters and it has a really strong romance that's written that is I think a very unique way of telling a a a really strong romance and the book just hit everything I needed it to hit and it was a delightful story and I think that the surprise at the end of the book is really welldesigned and so this was my favorite book of the year so far out of the 54 fantasy books that I read this year. The best one needs to be The Raven Scholar, and it was a tough choice. It delves so much into politics, but it also has incredible action scenes. It has plot twist that blew my mind. It's perfect if you want something that it's pretty plot- driven, but it has such great characters. It starts with a bug, and it really ends in a way that it makes you crave book two. It's that kind of story that when you're reading it, you know, it's wonderful. It's kind of a chunky but pages honestly just flew by. That kind of perfect story that will kick you out of a reading slump. It also has a mystery at its core and you need to figure out who did this murder. So, it has a blend of everything that I really loved. Let me know if you end up picking this one up and thank you so much Johan for asking me to be part of this collaboration. Hey there, it's Olivia here from Olivia's Catastrophe and I'm here to tell you one of my favorite books of the year. I have many books that I've really loved this year, but a particular sci-fi one that I've really enjoyed, which is a classic, so I know lots of people have already read it, but I read Children of Time for the first time by Adrien Tchaikovsky, and I absolutely loved this. It's what everybody says. It's set in the future. Humanity has ruined the Earth and they set out on some ships to find a new planet to exhibit. But at the same time, a scientist releases a virus that's supposed to speed up evolution. And it doesn't land on the planet that she wants it to. Instead, it lands on a planet of spiders. They evolve. The humans are off trying to find an inhabitable place. And maybe their paths will cross. And this book is absolutely amazing. Aenchaikovsky has managed to make me care about spiders. I fear spiders with my life and yet I was here rooting for these spiders to be okay. I loved the human characters as well as they have their own journey and experience. And let me tell you, this was pacy. This was full of the science within the science fiction and the ending. The ending got me. It got me really bad and I really really loved this. Hey Johan, thanks for having us on the channel. We are Austin and Richard from the channel Tutor Ramble. And here's our favorite books of 2025. Mine is Shadows Upon Time by Christopher Rockio. The end of the Suneater series. It's the book seven. So, I can't really say much about it because it would spoil the series other than saying what I can say because it's the chapter one of book one, Empire Silence, is that in book seven, he blows up a sun. It's called the Sunator series. You know that from the get-go. and it delivers in every single way. It's now one of my favorite series I've ever read. It also came out this year, 2025. Uh, and I'm so happy to now have something that that feels like I am a part of a story that will be remembered and that people will talk about it. It's It's that important. The themes that Sunderer gets at, the character Hrien Marlo, there's no no better character in sci-fi to me that is explored and contemplative and interesting. Uh, I highly recommend the series. Even though book one I wasn't a fan of, I think it'll get you hooked if you like deep world building. Uh, a a character who is introspective and and uh siloquiz or monologues quite a lot, but also uh something that is very relevant. So, if you're you're you're thinking about AI, you're thinking about the soul, think about free will, think any it touches on everything important that is happening today. And Shadows Upon Time was also my favorite read of the year. So, it's my number one read. But to give something different, uh, in addition, I loved The Goblin Emperor. It's another It's a five-star for me. It imagine imagine the Game of Thrones, but it's fought with kindness. And it is my new example uh book of noble leadership of can can leaders, can kings, how should they actually rule? because we have so many different stories showing us uh you know the corruption of people in power and how the kings are evil and the the need to do evil things for somewhat good ends all these different things. I've seen enough of that. I like that Goblin Emperor showed me a a noble king that is both kind but also not naive and with wisdom comes like this experience. I loved it. It was an emotional journey. It is one of my new example books to hand to people of cozy fantasy kind of with a noble leader. I loved it. Thanks, Johan. Bye. Hello, I'm Jessica from Jessica's Library Card and my favorite book of 2025, no question, is Where the Axe is Buried by Ray Naylor. It is 1984, updated for our current AI world. It is set in a near future in which very plausibly it feels like we have turned over decision-making in many of our governments to artificial intelligence. And there's a lot more to it than that. If you have read 1984 and you enjoyed the themes of propaganda, of mind control, of group think, all of those things. All of that's in here, but just slightly updated. And I thought it was just fantastic. I thought it was relevant and fresh and something completely unlike anything else that I read in the past year. It immediately was at the top of my list. and nothing else has managed to dethrone it. So, it is the book that I am going to recommend that you pick up to read this year. Where the axe is buried by Ray Naylor. Just just an amazing book. What's up everybody? This is Jake here from Nerd Level Rising. And we're talking about our favorite reads of the year. I want to give you guys something that's like a book one or a standalone. And I think what I what I want to shout out here is the Adaman short stories from Christopher Rocko. These are sword and sorcery short stories. They're short and sweet. These are great if you like fast-paced, brutal action, immense worldbuing and history and lore packed in a very, very short uh word count with a really fascinating character, really fascinating world that's going on here. There's no stars in the sky. There's all these gods. There's all this mythos. There's there's so much so much going on here. And if you want that old school feel of like a Conan the Barbarian of like uh there's some some anime, some JRPG. First one is free on Christopher Rockio's website, high matterbooks.com. The others are available on his Patreon. You can purchase just the story. You don't have to subscribe monthly or anything like that. You can get them individually. So, please check these out. They're fantastic. My name is Tyrone at Bookish Dad Reads. And thank you very much, Yoan, for giving me the opportunity to gush about my favorite read of 2025. Congrats on becoming a new dad as well. By the way, Empire of the Vampire is just pipping the number one spot for my favorite read of 2025. And for me, it just delivered everything that I want from a fantasy book. The pacing was great. The writing was unbelievable and thoughtprovoking passages that made me want to reread them over and over again. And as a man that really struggles with his mental health, I appreciated some of the themes in this book. One being the hunt for meaning of life. when you feel like there is no meaning to life and no reason to continue. This book just delves into so many themes that are thoughtprovoking and has characters that you can't help but love, even if their morals are very questionable at times. I am only about 15% into book two, but I am so confident in this author's work now that I would go on to say this book will probably go on to be one of my favorite trilogies of all times. and it's complete, so you should pick it up and read it. Thank you so much again, Johan. And hope you guys enjoy the rest of this video. Hi guys, I'm Maddie and I'm Kristen and we're from Chris and Mads and this year was so hard to choose our favorite book. I'm still not sure this is the one, but it was definitely good. What was yours? Mine was Pureessie. This is by Susanna Clark. It's so weird. It's different than anything I've ever read and it made me stretch my imagination muscles. I chose Pachenko by Minjin Lee because I learned so much. I felt so much and I just felt like it was a beautiful stripped back stoic way to approach this super tumultuous time in history. Thanks so much for having us back this year. Hope you guys had great reading. Bye. Hello, this is Jake. My channel is called Man Carrying Thing. And the best book I read in 2025 was this. Well, one of these books. This is four books. This is the LA Quartet from James Elroy. best book I read was called The Black Dalia. I haven't gone through the other three yet, but The Black Dollalia, they're all um noir hardboiled uh historical fiction. And The Black Dollia was a real crime case that happened in Los Angeles. And uh this book is a fictionalized kind of account of the uh hunt for the killer. So, it's very good, very well written, very well plotted. Um, great, great stuff. [snorts] All right, I'm Nick with Nick Reed Fantasy, and my favorite read of 2045 was Book of the Long Sun by Gene Wolf. And this book's very first page shows our main character, a priest in the poor section of the city, being visited by God while playing a science fiction version of basketball. The god instructs him to save his people, and the book follows him on a journey to do just that. And yes, this introduction sounds like the ramblings of a druginduced psychotic madman, but I swear it's a masterclass of literature. the characters in this book that go through arcs that sound impossible with righteous priests turning into crime, programmed robots experiencing humanity and prostitutes being elevated to deities. And it does all this in a spectacular retrofuturistic world where the planet is actually a giant spaceship with lightsabers that can rip through the very fabric of reality and yet people still have to hand pump their own water. So, I'm out of time, but Book of the Long was the best book in 2025. Hey everyone, it's Jay from Paperback Journeys. So, I actually update my top 10 list of the year every month. And unless something wild happens, then the best book that I've read so far in 2025 with just a couple of weeks left is Boy's Life by Robert McCann. This book follows a 12-year-old boy named Corey who's growing up in this tiny little town in Alabama. And one night, he and his father witness a car crash into the lake in the middle of the town. and his dad dives in to try and save the driver. And when he does, he discovers that the driver's been handcuffed to the steering wheel. So, this isn't uh an accident. This is a legit murder. And so, questions start to arise like, "Who was this guy that was driving through their town and who tried to kill them and why?" Now, you might assume hearing that that this is just going to be a straightup murder mystery, but it is so much more than that because the heart of the story is all about a kid growing up in a small town and all of the weird and wonderful characters that live there. It's filled with like the [clears throat] everyday magic and nostalgia of childhood. It's told in this episodic vignette style of storytelling and we watch these little moments unfold of wonder and grief and injustice. And we see it all through the eyes of a person who is just coming to an age where they're starting to understand the world for what it is with all of its beauty and all of its darkness. Did I cry when I read this book? Yeah. Yeah. I cried three times actually. Do you want to cry? Do you want to Do you want to cry? Go on. Anyway, thanks so much Johan for asking me to do this and I hope that you and all your viewers read some really great books this year. Hello, my name is Julie and I am from the channel Julie's Reading. I'm a reader of all sorts of books, but I do specialize in fantasy and speculative titles. I make vlogs. I make recommendation and review videos, but I do love making videos that are specifically about statistics about books and analyzing them. I have plenty of books that I love this year that it's really hard for me to tell what my actual favorite book of the year is. But the one that I wanted to talk about today is The Memory Police by Yoko Agawa. This is a translated speculative novel that is about an island that is controlled by these people called the Memory Police. They have the power to erase an item or an idea from every single person on the island's mind. They'll wake up in the morning with no connection to that item, and they'll just throw them away, and they will feel this hole where something used to be, but they don't actually remember what it is. Our main character's mother is someone that this effect didn't work on. Her mother was taken away from her when she was a child, and now as an adult, she finds that a person that she admires also has this and decides to hide him. She's also a novelist and is trying to write, but is struggling to as slowly her vocabulary gets smaller and smaller. I love this book because it's talking about authoritarianism and totalitarianism. It's about how when a regime makes the people so scared that they cannot unite against them, there is no fighting back. It's about the power of words and language to be able to create your own thoughts. It's sparssely written, but still very emotional, and it has just the right ending for me. So, I hope you all love the book. All right, but what is my favorite book of the year? Now, it's been a bit of a weird reading year cuz I am a huge huge fantasy nut, but my favorite books actually haven't been. So, firstly, a book I think might become my favorite book of the year and I haven't finished it yet, but I think Demon and White might become my favorite book of the year. By the time of recording this video, there's still like four weeks left of the year, so I can't put it on here. So, I think my favorite book of the year so far is a book called I Who Have Never Knowed Men. If you watch my channel, then you have heard me rave about this book. And this is a dystopian novel that absolutely blew my mind. It's only around 200 pages. It's so atmospheric. I read it in a single day. Absolutely absolutely loved it. So, if you're someone you know that loves dystopian and you're sick and tired of seeing the same thing again and again, check out this one. I was so so surprised by it. I cannot believe we're all here at the end of 2025 already. And I cannot believe I'm here on Johan's channel again. It's an absolute honor. Thank you so much, Johan. And thank you, Stephen Ericson, for writing so many great books that have been some of my top reads this year. Now, picking my favorite Malazan book for this year has been quite tough. I was really tempted to go with Midnight Tides. It's one of the funniest books I've ever read, but I think I'm going to have to go with Memories of Ice, the third book in the series. It has some of the most giant epic scenes I've ever read. Just huge battles, huge cinematic scenes that I can see playing out and just endless great character joys. And it was just one monstrously large book full of incredible moments. Ericson packs these books with so much great humor and I just can't wait to dive further into this series in 2026. Thank you again, Johan. Five me on here. I'm Dylan from Spaced Out Reads. See you. Hi, I'm Daffany and I'm from the channel Being Daphne. I'm so excited to be a part of this collab. My favorite book from 2025 was Pachenko and I don't have my physical copy because I loaned it out to my mom because I really want her to read it. I would describe this book as being achingly beautiful, heart-wrenching, and very real. It takes place in the early 1900s during the Japanese occupation of Korea. And it explores the prejudice that Koreans faced generationally while trying to thrive in Japan. And I absolutely loved it and would definitely recommend it. If it's on your TBR and you just haven't gotten to it, pick it up. It will be worth it even if it breaks your heart in the process. Hello Johan, Philip Chase here from the best of fantasy. Thank you for asking me to tell you about my favorite read of 2025 and it's going to be to Green Angel Tower, the last part of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn by Tad Williams. It is easy to see how this bridge series between the classic of the genre and some of the modern greats inspired such authors as George RR Martin and Robin Hob. This was such an emotional journey for me, particularly the second half of To Green Angel Tower. Yes, the series as a whole is a slow burn, but the payoff at the end, the emotional impact is just tremendous. And I encourage anyone who picks up the series to stick with it and let themselves be immersed in the beautiful pros and just the gorgeous journey that Tad Williams gives us. What's going on guys? Preacher Reads here and I don't have long, but let me tell you about Ironbound by Andrew Gibler. Now, this is an absolute banger. I think it's going to end up my second favorite book of the year. Now, why am I not talking about my first one? That is because I'm technically not done with it and everyone is talking about Shadows Upon Time by Christopher Rockio. But Ironbound is a book that needs to be talked about more. So what is it? Quick pitch. Ironbound is a fantasy novel, the first in a series with the second coming out next year. And it's progression fantasy, but the progression is baked into the world in such an awesome way. I want you to imagine an epic fantasy world. and you're in a situation very similar to maybe Kaledan in Bridge 4. And you've got these elements of friendship and of fighting through adversity and the unfairness of a political climate that is wellb built within a fantasy world, but with some awesome progression and action that can only come from a power fantasy type of novel. And that is Ironbound by Andrew Gler. I'm telling you, pick this up. It reads fast. It is deep. The character work is really, really good. The world is unique. The magic system is a little on the harder side and knocks it out of the park and pick up Ironbound by Andrew Gillery. It's one of my favorite books of the year and definitely my biggest surprise of 2025. I have a couple of books that could be my favorite book of the year this year, but considering the fact that I'm on Johan's channel today, there's really only one appropriate answer to this question, and it's going to be The Bone Hunters by Steven Ericson. The Bone Hunters is book six in the Malazin book of the fallen. Molassin is a fantasy series, a high fantasy series of the most epic proportions imaginable. And you are dropped into the middle of this story which is moving at full speed and you are just expected to kind of hang on for dear life and kind of get your bearings as you go. But don't worry, you will get it. You will go with it. And when you come out the other side of this, you'll have a different idea of what stories can be, what stories can mean and what stories can actually say throughout the course of their runtime. And when you do come out the other side, everybody's going to have their own idea as to what the best book is and which one's their favorite. Mine just happens to be The Bone Hunters. Library Viking, thank you so much for including us again in this amazing collab video you do every year. Okay, our top read of 2025. My name is John Mitten. This is talking story that is the best producer on book. My name is Jacob. Thank you so much Johan for letting us be here. My favorite read of the year is maybe my favorite read or at least up there ever uh is Pyrei by Susanna Clark and this gorgeous Folio Society edition. Um oh my god man this is just something magical. It it is following somebody that is stuck in this otherworldly house. They don't know how they got there or why they're there. They only know that they're there to take care of the house and they're doing their best to do that. And the ending of this book, Susanna Clark's writing in the p in the ending two pages, maybe even one page, is so beautiful in tone that it's it's a read I will remember for the rest of my life. So you top that with your read of the year. Gonna do my best. This year I had a buddy read of Long Price Quartet by Daniel Abraham. This series absolutely going to wreck my top 10 series of all time. It's a story of two gentlemen, a long life. They're in the room where it happens. Their relationship at the at the middle of this cauldron of the most tumultuous time of this world. Stunning. But book three, an autumn war, is the best book I have ever read about the cost of magic. It was jaw-dropping. Unbelievable. It will live in my soul forever. what happened there. The way it built up and then just exploded. Can't believe more people haven't picked up this series. So far, got December left to go, but so far, Autumn War by Daniel Abraham is my book of the year. I like my dick better. That's fair. Thanks, Johan. [laughter] Thanks, man. Hi, guys. I'm Josh Reeds. I do loads of book reviews on my YouTube channel. My favorite book of the year is none other than Blood Over Bright Haven. I just think this book is absolutely incredible. It has one of the best opening chapters I've ever had the privilege of reading. It throws you right into the world building and just right into the world straight away. It has some of the most incredible magic systems and the character arcs are just absolutely incredible. Not to mention the book is just absolutely devastating. ML Wang is an absolute genius author and she just does it again with this book. It is truly incredible. I cannot recommend it enough. If you want an amazing dark academia fantasy with an incredible magic system and just a harrowing world, you have to pick up Blood of a Bright Haven. Johan, you're asking me The Impossible. It's Josh here at Red Fury Books. You're asking me to pick my book of the year 6 weeks early, so I don't know how accurate this is going to be. But I also have some really good books lined up for the rest of the year that I'm going to mention cuz it might end up being one of them. I'm going to be continuing the Tyrant Philosophers series by AdrienChaikovsky with House of Open Wounds. I've heard tremendous things about this. I'll be continuing the Moloz and Book of the Fallen with the sixth book, The Bone Hunters, which I've heard tremendous things about this one. And then there's this little series called Suneater, that's coming to a close. I'll be reading that by the end of the year. One of those three books may end up as my book of the year. But since you're making me choose, I'm going to pick Changes by Jim Butcher, the 12th book in the Dresden Files series. This is a series that started very slow for me. I almost jumped off at a few points and I'm glad I didn't because you get to changes, it's super hyped and it lived up to the hype. So, there's my book of the year I guess with an asterisk. Hi everyone, I'm Lydia from Lid Loves and on my channel I read from all different genres and I've challenged myself to also read from every country in the world. And out of the 160 books that I've read so far this year, my favorite is from one of my all-time favorite authors and the book is The Laith of Heaven by the Queen of Sci-Fi herself, Ursula Ka. The La of Heaven is about a man who believes that his dreams have the ability to alter reality itself. He desperately wants this to stop and will take any and all measures to stop dreaming entirely until his drug abuse catches up with him and he is sent to governmentmandated therapy. This book is unique in so many different ways, but one of the main ways that I found is that this sci-fi contains an utterly passive main hero. And I won't spoil what happens because this book is under 200 pages, but it is an absolutely wild ride. It has Leguin's typical blending of not only the sci-fi elements, but also the spiritual elements of a whole new world system, and she truly flexes her worldbuing skills, not only in the political realm, but also in the personal. This is one of my favorite books of all time by one of my favorite authors, and I really, really hope that you read it. And I want to also just say a huge huge thank you to Johan for inviting me to be a part of this amazing collaboration with so many other booktubers. So thank you so much and I can't wait to see everybody else's favorite books as well. All right, so my favorite book of the year has to be Jabber Crow by Wendel Barry. First off, Johan, thank you so much for having me. I have been a fan of yours for a long time and it's super exciting to be a part of one of these videos. So Jabber Crow is an autobiography set in the Great Depression that is all about slowing down and enjoying life. So, while the world around Jabber Crow is changing and speeding up, he's trying to do his best to slow down and just enjoy the moments. And the coolest part about it is is he's a barber. So, not only is he getting to see the world through his own eyes, but he's hearing it through everyone else's eyes as they come in and get their haircuts. And it just adds this great depth to this story. And it is absolutely fantastic. Once again, Johan, thank you so much. And as always, peace and God bless.
