[1] Joe Abercrombie talks The Devils, Grimdark, Ensemble Casts & More | SFF Addicts Ep. 153 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AxTG1MtFjng

It was kind of un unremarkable in a way that I think when anyone first gets published, they're probably expecting it to be dramatic and life-changing. And I mean, it wasn't at all. It was It was quite understated. I didn't sweep down the marble staircase in a white linen suit with a dirty martini in my hand. Rapturous applause from the media as I had anticipated. I just uh sat at home waiting and nothing happened because you know you sell that even if you sell a few books no one reads them straight away. It was very low-key and also because I was published along with two other guys. So Tom Lloyd and Scott Lynch. So Tom Lloyd was published I think a month after me and Scott Lynch a month before and Scott Lynch was all like oh Scott Lynch oh I'm still a bit annoyed about it as you can tell. Uh so Scotland's got got obviously got a deal in the states. He got and you know his his lies a lot more did like really well and in fact obviously I didn't really appreciate how well it had done had done stratospherically well as a fantasy debut and actually Blade itself did really good but to me it always seemed like I've not done as well as Scott Lynch. This is my my life is over. [Music] What is up everybody? You're listening to episode 153 of SFFF Addicts. I'm your host Adrian M. Gibson and welcome to your weekly dive into the world of science fiction, fantasy, and writing craft. Joining me this week are both of my co-hosts for the first time this year. First up is the Chewy to my Han Solo, the Joker to my Commander Shepherd, MJ Co. How you doing, girl? Hello. I'm doing lovely and I'm excited to be back. Welcome back. Yeah, it's my first episode this year. So, yeah. Life just going crazy. Well, you're back. And then also with us is my bestie from the Midwesty, the queen of my days, my dear Greta Kelly. How are you, girl? Hey, I'm good. So glad we've got the trifecta going, right? Yes. For the first time this year. And if you want to support MJ in her quest to quit her day job, you can pick up her novel, Among Thieves. If you want a good old heist with hatchets and lots of swearing, because you know there's going to be swearing in this episode cuz we're talking to Joe Abercrombie. Y'all fans can can find Among Thieves and you'll be right at home. Oh my gosh. And if you want to support the lovely Greta Kelly, uh she has many many wonderful books out. This is The Frozen Crown, which is uh book one in the Warrior Witch duology. Um but also Queen of Days, as was mentioned in the intro, which is a lovely another lovely heist book featuring a book of Chaos Gremlins. It's great. Check it out. I think there's less swearing than than Among Thieves. I think there's less swearing, but you know, I I aspire someday. And of course, go and support Adrian and his little chaos Gremlin boys. Get Mushroom Blues for your fix of murder, mayhem, and mushrooms. It's out now in whatever format you like. Yeah. As well, if you want to support SFAX on Patreon, you can get a ton of cool extras like bonus episodes, author readings, and more. So, check the links in the description to support what we do here. Also, don't forget to rate and view the podcast on your favorite podcast app and subscribe to the FanFic YouTube channel where this and every other episode of the show is available in full video. And now, we already teased it. Welcoming to the podcast, Mr. Swear the great Joe Aberie, author of the first madness and more, including his newest release, The Devils. Welcome, Joe. How are you? Show it. Show it off. I'm I'm good. I'm good. I'm all right. I'm good. No, I'm fine. We'll see how it goes. I'm fine so far. Take a poll at the end, too. Looking forward. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be It'll be like a debate style where they have like a a pre-debate uh polling and and a post-debate polling to see who wins. Yeah, we won't release the end one if you're worse because you know I'm feeling outnumbered to Don't worry. I feel like I've got to take one of you out early if I go and have a chance against the other Greta's the newest. She's the weak lady. Oh my god. Well, Joe, for anyone who isn't familiar with you and your work, can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Well, who are these poor sad people who are living under a rock? It's really really tragic. Yeah, there are there such fantastical beings out there. Um I am um a fantasy author. I have been writing for nearly 20 years. Played itself was my first book. Came out in 2006. It's going to be the 20th anniversary next year. And The Devils is my 13th novel, if you can believe that. Unlucky for some. So, uh, I'm having a hard time portraying myself as a fresh new voice. I'm still trying, you know, a maverick newcomer ready to revolutionize this stale genre with my fresh new voice. That's me. Uh, I wrote a trilogy called The First Law and then uh six other books in that world and also uh a trilogy called The Shattered Sea and most recently The Devils is out. Well, I'm not sure when this will be airing, but from time of recording Yeah, it'll be out today. The Devils is out today. The Devils are on the loose in that case. Exactly. Watch out, dude. I feel like the world is nigh. I feel like you uh you pulled a really a really good trick with book number 13 where you wrote about the devils dude as like a bit of like yeah a bit of a [ __ ] you to whatever bad spirits are out there. Yeah. I mean the bad spirits have already taken a piece out of me and I'm ready to fight back. I don't know. Yeah. I mean in the end the book's the number 13. You can't really avoid writing a 13th one, right? You could just like pretend like they do on hotels sometimes and just be like, "No, this is my 14th book. Oops." You know, just skip the 13th floor. Just skip the skip the 13th floor. Yeah, maybe I should have done that. Too late now. Try to get your publishers on board for that. I will. I'll suggest it. Before we dig deeper into the episode, a quick word from our sponsor. Welcome to Transference, where death and sickness are but a distant memory. [Music] Right. Nicholas Five Burrows is a sicko, someone that takes on others illnesses. In a city where diseases can be transferred, the rich by longer lives without pain, and the poor get a short life of constant sickness. Brought back from the brink of death by his friend Brian Meadow or maybe the invisible hand of an outside actor, Nick finally gets the chance to try and change things, to finally stop the whole disease transfer network. Tensions escalate as Nick infiltrates a higher society he doesn't understand and starts to fall for Dorothy Sungate, the very person he needs to manipulate to be successful. And between run-ins with a talking cat, genetically modified humans, and a robotic police force, the world around him just keeps getting stranger. Can Nicholas tear down the disease transfer architecture? And how much of his humanity is he willing to bargain along the way? A dystopian vision of healthcare and a market economy transference will appeal to fans of Red Rising, Bladeunner, and the Bioshock franchise. Soon to be a complete duogy with the release of Transcendence in the summer of 2025. Transference by Ian Patterson is available now in paperback and ebook. Get your copy today. And now enjoy the rest of this episode of SFFF Addicts. Well, we always like to also kind of kick off the intro part by diving into our guests nerdy origins. Um, so because we're all just big nerds here in a very fun and loving way. Speak for yourselves. I'm a jock. Always. He's a gentleman in a scholar. I've always been in the among the cool crowd. I've only been writing fantasy for 20 years. I am super cool. Stuffing people in lockers prior to becoming a fantasy author naturally. Well, between locker stuffings, what books, movies, games were you watching, reading that got you hooked on sci-fi and fantasy? Um, well, Lord of the Rings. I'm sorry to be so basic here, but Lord of the Rings was my gateway thing. The Hobbit as a very small child and then Lord of the Rings as soon as I could lift my dad's editions. And uh then from there I kind of got very into role playing games of the I suppose Dungeons and Dragons, Middleear role playing, rune quest, lots of odd shaped dice, lots of character sheets, lots of maps, and alongside that I read anything I could find. But this was um 126 years ago before the internet was invented. And so imagine is Jacob is Jacob like your version of an autobiography? Well, I mean certainly they say write what you know, right? So So you wrote immortal immortal or deny. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Um before the internet. So there was no that you couldn't go to the forum and and ask, you know, if I like this, what should I read now? So, I ended up reading the kind of most obvious things that were in the window of the local bookstore, and that was David Eddings and Dragon Lance. Um, and a lot of very kind of straight ahead heroic fantasy of that of that 80s and and ' 90s era. Um, and then I kind of drifted away from fantasy as I as I got older. um felt like I was reading the same thing over and over a little bit and so went on to read a lot of other things, westerns and thrillers and and all kinds of other stuff, but I still had this kind of, you know, my heart still belonged in in Middle Earth with the elves, right? Not not in the lockers. Not in the lockers. Exactly. And I was shoving elves in the lockers and uh then um when I was kind of in my I suppose mid 20s, I must have been early 20s. Um, someone gave me a copy of a book you may not have heard of, a little known writer called George RR Martin. I think he's going to be big. I think he's got a bright future. Yeah. Very niche. And he uh he this friend of mine gave me that book and said, "Oh, you used to read a lot of fantasy. You should read this." And I looked at that book and it had like a a knight on the front and uh a wizard and a princess and a castle, I think. And I looked at that and thought, I've seen this before. I know where we're going with this. And of course, I got my doors blown off. That naughty Mr. Martin pulled the rug out from under me. And I thoroughly enjoyed that experience of being shocked and and horrified. You know, I like things that are character focused and shocking and kind of raw. And that's what I'd been enjoying in the thrillers and the westerns that I've been reading. And suddenly here was someone doing exactly that with with fantasy. And uh I just thought, man, I should try something like this. And that's how I got started writing. I think become naughty Mr. Abberi. Right. Exactly. Exactly. So, did you start off off the bat with writing novels or because I think you also went TV production as well. Was it film that came first or writing novels for you? Well, I had an abortive attempt at at writing just after I left university. I um had no education because I did a psychology degree. Therefore, emerged with zero skills of any kind. Shade. And so I I thought I'll I'll teach myself a skill of touch typing, something I can sell. And um the way I'll learn practice is by writing this fantasy novel I often had in my mind. And so I wrote a few chapters of the same book that would become the blade itself in the end, but it was it had a very different tone. add a much more pompous um you know self-s serious classical subtalkkine kind of a tone to it heroic romantic stuff you know and um then I went away from it I got a job in TV as you say ended up working as an editor doing documentaries and live music um and then because I was freelance in that profession as most people are in the UK anyway Um, I kind of just ended up with a fair bit of time on my hands. Even if you're successful, which of course I was. I was superb at that job. Um, even if you're successful, you still have, you know, 10 weeks off a year, 12 weeks off because the jobs don't match up. And, uh, so I played video games for about five years and then thought, I got to do something more, you know, worthwhile with my time. And it was because I had the time on my hands. I thought I'll pick up that terrible fantasy novel I was writing and have another go. And I'd read Game of Thrones at this point or the first three Song of Ice and Fire books in fact. And uh that had had an impact and I'd read a lot of other things and I'd kind of I don't know was maybe taking myself less seriously and the genre a bit less seriously and just straight away that second time I started to just be interested in what was coming out in a way I hadn't been the first time. Um, and it felt like it had a kind of voice and a personality that seemed somehow exciting. Not to say that it felt like someone else was writing it, but there was a kind of some sort of additive element to it that it was very different to the first time around. I just started to become interested in how to structure a scene, how to go about writing, and the technicalities of of doing it. And um, went from there really. And I think after a few months of that, I hadn't produced much cuz I kept going over and over things, which I think was very sensible at the time was kind of how I learned to do it. Um, but I'd kind of been bitten, you know, and I think at that point I thought I'm always going to be writing something even if it's just a sort of hobby in the middle of the night. But the sensible thing to do obviously is start with, you know, a short story or something tightly contained that you can easily sell. And so I began with a giant epic fantasy trilogy because, you know, what could go wrong? What could go wrong? I made it panned out. So yeah, I mean in the long run, yeah, in the long run it has it has worked out. Yeah. I suppose that you know I wrote as people do you know they wrote what they want to read and they wrote what they have read and fantasy to me was a genre of big ass trilogies. Um and so you go for the classic form, right? I've never been afraid of the classic form. Yeah. But at the same time want to see it's like when it clicked with you it was because you were starting to like find your own voice as opposed to Yeah. Yeah, I think like most of us writers end up copying the people that we admire in the books that we read growing up. And you said like your first iteration of what would become The Blade Itself was quite Tolken inspired, quite Yeah. Yeah. Like this is no this is no offense to anyone who's out there writing their first book, but first books tend to be quite trit and like you start to learn like this is how I want to be a writer. This is how I want to write my story. And it's still going to have influences from Tolken or whoever you admire. But once you find that moment where it starts to click with you and you find uh the words are flowing out of you a little bit easier and more naturally then it's yeah it's a beautiful thing. But you have to get through you have to wade through the [ __ ] in order to get there. It takes a little bit of practice. It's fair to say. Yeah. And with your experience in in you know like film editing and and working in music videos, documentaries, all that kind of stuff, what are some of the big parallels that you can kind of draw between storytelling in in these various mediums, whether it's visual or um pros? I mean there there's a lot there's a lot in common in a way. Um obviously there's differences in the sense that the toolbox is different slightly different. um as a you know a visual artist if you like on film or TV you have the huge advantage of lots of collaborators who are expert in their own area you know and you have actors for example in a drama and an actor can do an awful lot with one eyebrow that as a writer you might spend pages trying to get the exact sense across. Um, but as a as a writer, you have uh, you know, access to inner monologue and kind of addressing the reader and describing things and using metaphor and concepts that the the visual guy doesn't have. So, you know, you've got a slightly different toolbox, but at the same time, there's a lot there that's universal. I mean, a surprising amount. I I think I found that the experience of being an editor gave me a kind of natural sense of how to pace a scene perhaps. Uh compared to my first efforts long before my first efforts tended to be okay. So you start with the big you know the big description of the place and then you come into the people and you describe the people and then you know you set up what they're doing and then you maybe give a bit of background and then someone says a line hello. Um, and then after having, you know, had the experience of being an editor, I had a much better understanding of, you know, how you come into a scene on the dialogue. You come into the scene on the door slamming, you know, you come out of the scene on a sharp moment, on a cliffhanger, on something that drives you on to the next part. And you know, an editor will use the motion within the frame and the sound of what's being said to lead between, you know, one sequence and the next. That pacing and that timing that that skill is kind of the same bizarrely when you're writing. Um, and so I think it was hugely helpful to have that, you know, grounding in how to structure a scene and also, you know, what you can cut out, what you've got to focus on and what you don't need. And I think the most important skill a writer has is cutting. The most important tool is the scissors. You know, the first question always to ask yourself about a line or a paragraph or anything is do I need this or is it better without? You know, and often you find often if something is a bit like I'm not sure about this, how am I going to make this work? Try cutting it first. And it's amazing how, you know, in the end, if your if your book is made up of good parts, average parts, and brilliant parts, if you cut the average parts out, then it's just good and brilliant. And if you cut the good parts out, it's just brilliant, right? I mean, it's not quite as simple as that, but in the end, cutting it down is I think very valuable, especially in a genre where often, you know, it can be it can be sort of there's a lionization of weight and scale and size. You know, we've got into this kind of cycle of bigger and bigger series and bigger and bigger books. Remember when I was a kid, you know, Lord of the Rings was the biggest thing one could read. You read Lord of the Rings, amazing. Whereas now, Lord of the Rings seems tiny. I mean, the first Lord's longer than Lord of the Rings, and that's not that big a series. So, I think tightness is is underrated in the genre, and tightness is always a a good thing to go for. C is your friend. Yeah. Or delete if you if you want to be bold. You want Yeah. If you want to or sorry, control X. Sorry. If you want to be bold about it, just delete that [ __ ] Backspace. Yeah. It's funny. I feel like I can see some of your like uh film or television background when uh like with regard when you switch POVs sometimes. Uh cuz like I'm I'm reading Best Serve Cold right now as well. Um I was just like doing a double dip co-reading The Devils and Best Serve Cold. I was like, I'm just going to stew in in all of all of this wonderfulness. Um, but I was there was this one section and I was like, I feel like you you'd done that at some point in the first law as well where it's like the last sentence of one person's POV is like they weren't going to do this and then the first sentence of the next one is a line of dialogue that's like and then he did this. And I do feel like that's a very compelling and film whatever. I I really enjoy that as a reader. Personally, it's the kind of thing that as an editor, as a TV editor, you you know, the directors kind of say, "Yeah, you think you're a smart ass, but can we cut that?" That's way never cut it out. I adore it. I as a writer, there is no director. Yeah. You just go, "Yeah, be as much of a smart ass as I like." No one will tell me not to be. Well, the editor will tell me not to be, but I can always say, "Yeah, but see, you got I overruled you books out now. You could be like, nah, son. doing. Yeah, that's that's my stick. Let me roll with it. Oh my god, I love it. I love it. Well, this conversation about film and TV kind of leads us to a question from one of our lovely patrons, David Hopkins. Um, where David says, "I really loved the episode Mason's Rats in Love, Death, and Robots. Um, did you already have that short story written or did they come to you asking for something? What's the story about and how did it come about is the question from David. Yeah. So, I've been um working with a guy called Tim Miller for many years now. Many years. Uh almost as long as I've been writing, 12 years probably. And uh he's the creator of Love Death and Robots as as it happens. Um and so I've ended up writing a couple of episodes. Now, I didn't write the stories they're based on. So most of those episodes are based on stories that Tim has found and you know likes or has loved for many years and um then they're adapted into some sort of screenplay format. And so that's the job I did on Mason's Rat. So Neil Asher wrote the story, the original story. So I didn't really have to worry too much about the story. I had to reduce it and revision it. I think it was in the end made up from two or three different stories in the same millure. Uh so anyway, Tim asked me to write one and that's the one that I did and I've written a couple in the next season which again are based on other people's stories, both of those. Um so yeah, that's how that happened. Well, it's nice. I do quite a lot of film and TV. It's nice that you get to adapt to other other people's work, though. I feel like Oh, it's fantastic. Yeah. It's like you smash it all up. Yeah. Yeah, just like make it a nice mish mash of of different ideas. Scissors again. Scissors again. But you don't have to take scissors to your work. You can take it to other people's work. Oh, well that's the absolutely the dream that is. You don't even have to write it yourself. I mean, my god, that's the writing would be great if it wasn't for the writer. And then all the editors out there are just like, yeah. No. Yeah. Well, steering away from the TV and film part of your career, um, kind of touch base a little bit more on First Law as well. When you were taking that book out of the drawer after how long you had after abandoning it, I mean, did you ever imagine that it would become what it has become and like how how did it go from being in your drawer to being on the shelves everywhere? Well, over the course of quite a long time, partly I think. Um, and yeah, I suppose when you are writing for the first time as a hobbyist, you both think this is amazing and you I'm going to be a massive international success and also think no one's ever going to be interested in reading this crap ever because it's awful. You know, you have those two voices simultaneously, right? you fantasize about the possibility of success, but at the same time it seems like this is ridiculous really and naff and absurd. Uh so I suppose I went from the point of being a hobbyist writing you know in the middle of the night a couple of hours a night and you know at weekends and now and again. And after a couple of years, I had a book, three years. I say a book. I had a booklength assemblage of words uh that wasn't a not a million miles away from what the blade itself would end up being. And then I started trying to get an agent. Um didn't have much luck. And as I say, it was in the days prior to the internet. Uh and so you'd send your stuff off in a with a self-addressed envelope inside. uh you'd send your sample off to the agent and then six weeks later your own envelope would come through the door and you would know that you had been you know you'd got and picked up another rejection. So that was terribly soul destroying but I manfully struggled through it. You know it's a noble and impressive tale without a doubt. And then I was luckily just complete randomness. I um a friend of mine who knew I was doing it uh ended up working for a publisher and he was on a desk editing course and he met this woman Jillian Red Fern on that course who just started work at Galance as an assistant editor. And when he found out she worked for a sci-fi and fantasy in print, he said, "Oh, this friend of mine written a book. Do you want to do you want to look at it? submitted you out of pity. Oh no. Yeah. She said, "Oh, all right. Okay, I'll have a look at it." That's a good friend right there, though. I know. I know. I love too young as readers cuz now we all get to read these awesome books. So, well, well, that's what happened. Of course, she read the book and was like, "Wow, this is so amazing." She wasn't actually. She was like, "This is pretty terrible." And then she got to the second chapter was like, "This is interesting." And so we cut the first chapter off later, but um she yeah, she read it and I got a got an offer a couple of weeks later and uh there you go. And then it got published and it was kind of unremarkable in a way that I think when anyone first gets published, they're probably expecting it to be dramatic and life-changing. And I mean, it wasn't at all. It was it was quite understated. I didn't sweep down us at the marble staircase in a white linen suit with a dirty martini in my hand. Rapturous applause from the media as I had anticipated. I just uh sat at home waiting and nothing happened because you know you sell that even if you sell a few books, no one reads them straight away. And you you either so. No, no, no, not at all. It was very lowkey. And also because I was published along with two other guys. So Tom Lloyd and Scott Lynch. So Tom Lloyd was published I think a month after me and Scott Lynch a month before and Scott Lynch was all like oh Scott Lynch oh I'm still a bit annoyed about it as you can tell. Uh so Scott got obviously got a deal in the States. he got and you know his his lies a lot more did like really well and in fact obviously I didn't really appreciate how well it had done had done stratospherically well as a fantasy debut and actually blade itself did really good but to me it always seemed like I've not done as well as Scott Lynch this is my my life is over I'm crushed him and his gorgeous head of hair comparison wonderful hair his hair and his US deal and French deal and everything and So to me it was like ah this is this is a bit disappointing. But of course over the course of the year I started thinking well it's going all right all right and then the second book came out and it did a bit better and the third book came out and it did a bit better and and then it started feeling like oh it's doing pretty good and gradually I I reached a point after I suppose after the fourth book came out when I could consider going full-time at which point of course I stopped writing entirely for about a year because that's generally what happens when you go full-time you Seems like all you want to do is be a full-time writer. Imagine how fast I could write if I did that. And as soon as I gave up the day job, it was like couldn't write at all. Hopeless. Isn't creativity just wonderful by Yeah. I mean, my my my approach has always been to take all creativity out of the process as much as possible. You know, creativity just gets in the way. You want to treat it like laying brick. you know, take all the magic and excitement and joy right out of that and just grind through it. Grind through it like a minor at a coldfest. Yeah. To all the aspiring authors. And then when you're grinding is when the creativity will will appear. That's true. See? Yeah. And creativity comes to the writer who is at work. Yeah. That I definitely do agree with cuz Yeah. You just sit waiting for inspiration. I'm just like I don't want to be a coal miner waiting for a long time. Yeah. I don't want to get black lung. Yeah, the black lung. I was just thinking that. Absolutely. Just a little. Yeah. Yeah. Um but looking back, okay, so you I know your Twitter handle is Lord Grimdark and and you were inspired by by Naughty George and yeah, now people look back and they're like first law and they're very very quickly associated with grim dark as a subgenre. But like what looking back, why do you think your books in particular like the first law universe are now so iconic and like intertwined with with this uh grim dark subgenre? Well, they're iconic because of the huge quality the tremendous quality of the work. I set you up for the humble for the humble brag. You did, didn't you? You set him up. Uh I I honestly don't really know. No, I mean I think I you know obviously I never thought of it as the the word had never been used when I was writing it and I suppose I first heard the word grim dark you know sometime after the books came out. So probably in the kind of 2010 sort of time when the internet had started to appear as an important thing and chat rooms and blogs were and Tumblr were the you know places where people would speak of grim dark but when they use that word they'd mean [ __ ] you know they'd mean it was bad. They'd mean they'd say things like well you know the blade itself is grim dark but Game of Thrones isn't grim dark cuz it's good. you know that they when they said grim dark they meant ludicrously cynical over-the-top edge lord you know it was it tended to be a pjorative but then over time people started to use it to kind of describe a style of fiction that they they liked and then of course everything gets dumped in there so I've always found it a bit of an a useless term I mean it's it's useful in so far as it can connect a reader with something they want to you know, to describe a style they like and help them to find other books they might like. It's not a lot of use as a sort of critical term because no one ever agrees on what's in it and what's not in it. And if they don't like the idea, they kind of tend to shove out everything that might be worthwhile. And if they love the idea, they, you know, they push everything from Game of Thrones to, I don't know, the films of Akira Kurasawa into the bucket along with everything else. And everything's grim dark. So, I don't know. I mean, I suppose I just wrote what I was interested in writing. To me, I was just writing epic fantasy, my take on Lord of the Rings, really. And that happened to be a kind of gritty, cynical take. I'd read a lot of very shiny, heroic stuff and I wanted to do, you know, something surprising and different, I suppose, and to take the sort of approach that Unforgiven takes to the Western. You know, it has a lot of the classic elements, but it has this kind of more modern, more cynical take on it all. Um, and then I suppose other people were doing similar stuff at the same time. you know, the affforementioned Scott Lynch with his great hair and uh then guys like uh I suppose Mark Lawrence appeared and and then there were guys like Pete Brett and Brent Weeks and others who appeared doing kind of not dissimilar kind of stuff and then it felt somehow like it was a bit of a movement. I mean I don't know where the literary movements come from. I think I think they they tend to be quite spontaneous. Like if you look at something similar happened with um mysteries and noir, like noir developed in a very similar fashion to something like Grim Dark where it's like a more cynical take on on mysteries and and society and whatnot. Yeah. And I think only in hindsight can you see can you sort of see these are like the tracks that were laid because the people who are actually doing it generally don't even know what the [ __ ] is going on until someone says well exactly we feel like we're just writing mysteries or fantasy or whatever and then yeah as you say in hindsight it becomes kind of obviously part of a wave of other stuff but I mean that's hugely fortunate for those who are in it because you know everyone adds to the kind of success of everyone else up to a point you know they people read a Scott Lynch book and they go, "Oh, what next?" Or people read a George Martin book for that matter and sort of say, "Oh, what should I read next?" And that way, you know, I think everyone you get you get a certain amount of attention drawn to all the writers who are kind of in that loose bucket. Yeah. I'm going to send this to my friend Adrian over in Australia because he's the founder of Grim Dark Magazine. Be like, "You cornered yourself, bro." Yeah. Yeah. I'm aware. Where's the flexibility? Huh? Oh my god. All right. Well, we got to talk about your newest book, which we've made it like 30 minutes into the interview, and we haven't even helped you pimp that yet. So, sorry. Your newest book, The Devils, that definitely retains some of the hallmarks of a of a classic Abbercrombie book. It's got the humor, it's got the banter, it's got the charm, it's got quite a bit of dark [ __ ] Can you tell listeners a bit more about it? And then like where did the idea for this book come from? Because it's not set in the same world as the first law trilogy. Um just you know give us give us a pitch and the scoop. Well the pitch is uh it takes place in a in a sort of uh alternate Europe. I'm probably giving it too much respect by describing it that way. It takes place in a a magic and monster riddled Europe under threat of elf invasion and follows a set of monsters employed by the 10-year-old pope to solve the problems the righteous are not equipped to handle. That's basically what it is. I spent about three hours describing it once to someone who then said, "Oh, so it's like Medieval Suicide Squad." And I said, "No, no, no, it's not." Oh, no. is like that. Uh, so it kind of is like a bit like Medieval Suicide Squad, frankly. God damn it. Uh, obviously very funny. And they they they summed it up for you and you had more time to work on your eyebrow raise. It works. Exactly. Exactly. I had that down already. That's the the one writing tool I've truly mastered. That's what we should be doing the master class on. Raising your eyebrow. Absolutely. That and the glasses remove, you know. Oh, there you go. A classic. Oh, yeah. Is it a classic? There you go. Oh, there you go. Oh, no. That's going to be one of our clips for that. For this episode coming down in a movie. I use it on panels. Scott Lynch just appears out of the blue and swishes his hair doing a hair commercial. Like a like a Pantene commercial. Yeah. So, why did you decide to stick with Europe but alternate history versus just making your own second world from scratch? I suppose partly just because I'd done Second World uh and that was sort of my instinctive first thing that I'd done. Although my Second World was very historical Europe inspired, I will admit it's quite a low magic world. Um, and I wouldn't want to say that it's just Renaissance Italy with the serial numbers filed off and the names of the places with like two letters swapped around or anything, but it's not not that. So, I don't know. Um, I suppose it felt like doing something set in medieval Europe would would be something slightly different and perhaps open up a historical crowd who might find a secondary world a bit off-putting. Does that sound bad to be re reaching out to a certain readership? I don't know. Anyway, smart. Uh, they're starved. They're starved at the moment. So, I thought having done a low magic secondary world, I'd do a high magic Europe was kind of the vibe. And so I'd do a very silly version of Europe. As I said, alternate history is too giving it too much respect because really it's just throwing stuff at the wall and seeing what sticks. So it's kind of you know female savior therefore female priesthood in the church and it's Carthage won the Punic Wars and defeated Rome and it's Troy won the Trojan Wars and various other bits and pieces but you know really it's a kind of uh crazy and inconsistent fever dream uh out of focus in the background so that the characters can be strongly in focus in the foreground cuz that's what I'm really all about. The people. The people. At least that's my excuse. That's I'm sticking to that. Real medieval Europe was also like a messy [ __ ] fever dream. So I think you're fine. No, no, you're 100%. That's it. Exactly. Exactly. So exactly so. The stuff I love about say the Viking world is the stuff that gets across the alien weirdness of the mindset of the Viking world. You know, because often fantasy is set in these medieval sort of worlds but has very modern people. I mean, I kind of do that myself because it's really about now. it's not about them. Um, and so sometimes the most alien stuff is not fantasy, but historical fiction that is quite kind of authentic to the mindset of the past. So I felt like this weird fever dream which no one really knows where anything is or what anything's called seemed faithful to the medieval experience. And again, I'm sticking to that story also. We've got a sense they've got a they've got a a starting point and a destination. It's like they're going to Troy. Everything else is just you got whatever Joe decided to stuff. Yeah. But how did you feel going through this fever dream and comparing your experience creating secondary worlds versus what it's like to, you know, pull influence, not direct influence, not not historical fact necessarily, but like pull influence from our own real history. I enjoyed it. I mean it was it's always enjoyable to start something new. Um there's a kind of enjoyment of new characters, new beginnings that lasts a certain amount of time before it becomes grind again, becomes work again. The coal miner's back at it. Yeah, the coal miner's back at it. Um, but it was nice to it was it was a nice change from secondary world where you've kind of got a certain amount of whole cloth that you've got to work with. And I mean the nice thing about working in Europe as it were is you can very quickly describe a place and people know exactly what you're talking about or up to a point you do. You have a whole set of references that people will straight away bring with them. It enables you to make bad jokes about England, which is always, you know, a good value. Um, and other places in Europe, you know, you can make you can make Europe jokes, which is sort of funny. And you can throw Atlantis in and kind of all kinds of stuff. So, you can do the familiar and also the weird, which I think is quite a nice tone to have in the background. So, I found it um I found it a lot of fun. I suppose with a secondary world you have this certain weight of responsibility when you've written nine books certainly there's all this stuff all this history all these characters all this geography you've got to keep straight and relatively accurate and that's very useful to have all that stuff on the shelf or that reference material but it can feel you know like a bit of weight to carry and get in the way of just getting on with the story. So, it was nice to kind of cut loose on something new. And there's also the thing of you don't, you know, you can just get a map of Europe. You don't have to like draw your own map. You You should Did you Did you ask your publishers be like, "Hey, at the very beginning just like your glossery is like get a [ __ ] map. Just a single get the times out." And the great thing is when you draw your own map, you know how it has like the journey? It's all really detailed. Yeah. But then there's all this white space off to the sides. Like, what am I doing with that? Then if you're going to give that to an artist who's going to put the map on the fly leaf, then you suddenly got to fill all this [ __ ] in like where no one goes. It's really annoying. Whereas the the maps of Europe, that that stuff's all done that like all it's all there. It's all filled in. You can also take your pick. You got you got like centuries of different kinds of maps. different. You got you got those ones with the fun with like the funky animals and like creatures and monsters in the ocean or on there. And then you could just rub a bit of it out and just put elves. Yeah. Do you want to I love it. Job done, you know. Then you can get straight on with conversation. Get a [ __ ] him out, people. Oh my god. Well, and with so with setting it in a historical environment, I feel like you probably did some uh some fun historical research. So, I'm curious if you found any particularly fun or like [ __ ] up historical facts that that popped up during that research process that you would like to share with all of us. Yeah, I mean I certainly read a lot of stuff about uh relics and pilgrimages and sort of the nature of medieval Christianity. Uh a lot of which is quite dry, but at the same time the the kind of uh the industry of pilgrimages and relics and how obsessed people were with all that stuff and how seriously they took it. Again, getting back to the alieness of the past, it was quite a quite a thing. You know, people would go on a pilgrimage and they'd be sold a badge for visiting a certain shrine and they'd they'd build up all their collection of badges so when they went home they could say, "Look how pious." It's like medieval Pokemon. No, I was going to say it's like it's like a it's like a scout sash. Like if you're like a boy scout and you have a sash of Exactly. Exactly. So, uh maybe that's that was quite kind of maybe who knows. That was entertaining. Um, and I suppose, you know, I'd read a lot about um about Baantium and kind of the ancient world and about the Punic Wars and things before, which I suppose was stuff that all dripped into this and into the kind of NAF version of history that I that I ended up with. stuff about the great schism and arguments over the date of Easter and all of that all those good things. The position of the soul and the body and you know people got into some quite esoteric stuff. I also um read a whole thing about stylites. Have you ever heard of these guys? Monks who lived on top of pillars? No. Yeah. So they so throughout the east through throughout the Bisantine Empire they were very popular. The guys who you know climb up a pillar and live there for 30 years. What? And people would pass them food and stuff. I had a sequence of of a set of stylites in it and then it didn't make the final cut. I took it out in the end. But maybe I'll go back there cuz it's a pretty crazy thing. So wait, like how how big were these pillars that they were just hanging out there like? They were not big. So they I mean they were tall. They were they weren't wide. Sit up there. Were they standing the whole time? Well, I think that maybe they were sitting down. Maybe they could just about curl up on there, but they were you know they were supposed to be uncomfortable. Yeah, but I mean too bad for like everyone below. It's like you [ __ ] that [ __ ] goes off the side and everyone else has to deal with it. They didn't bring that up and that didn't come up a lot actually. But I suppose it should have. Obviously they had to bring food up in a bucket and stuff. Fantastic. So I guess something was going down the other way. What a what a life. Yeah, like quite a life. Bring Bring me a sandwich and I'll send you some poo. What a trade. What a trade. You attempted to go and become a Starlight now. very much. I think opportunity for a character in the devil's finally could finally get some writing done. All right. That was his version of like writer's block is just like there's a guy standing on a pillar for 30 years. He's like, "God damn it, what are they going to do?" Well, let's talk about your cast of characters in the Devils, your little suicide squad. How did you assemble these little chaos gremlins? Did did someone come first in your mind when you were first drafting the story? It's a good question actually. It's always a little bit hard looking back to pull out exactly where different elements come from. Um, and I suppose one thing I'd always quite enjoyed doing and had tended to work quite well in previous books was a sort of uh group of assorted mismatched idiots on some kind of quest, falling out with each other and, you know, generally talking and interrelating and striking interesting sparks from each other. And when I wrote The Age of Madness, which was my most recent trilogy before this, there wasn't very much of that. People tended to each be in their own section of the story doing their own thing, and there wasn't so much of the groups. And so I felt like I wanted to base this around a small and intense group of weirdos basically, and monsters, high magic in this case. So werewolf vampire pairing obviously a classic you know you can't really go wrong with that. So that was one that had to be one element. And I suppose the male werewolf and the kind of sultry female vampire classics. So I went for the female werewolf and the sultry male vampire because this is the kind of revolutionary subversion I'm all about. And then elves are obviously part of this world. They're the kind of existential threat of this world. And so it seemed appropriate they'd have an elf. And she ended up being invisible. I don't know why. She's just an invisible elf. That's that's the concept. And then and then uh you've need some sort of magician or sorcerer of some kind. Definitely. And I mean, necromancy just seems like it has the most potential for silly action sequences. So, but it dabbles in demonology because you want to get that in there somewhere, too. Uh, so necromancer. And then I don't not sure about the knight who's been the cursed knight. I suppose I felt like I needed to when I wrote the first law, there's a lot of manly male manliness. They're quite manly books. It has been remarked upon occasionally that although the female characters are excellent, there are two basically and uh there could be more than two. And so uh I felt like it was important to get a lot of interesting female characters in there, but something for the something for the alphas out there out there. And so that was where Yakob comes from. He's kind of the used up old man of violence. He's always been a a good for all the edge lords who thought they may have been left behind. Joking. Exactly. If they're feeling a little bit uncomfortable in this book full of invisible gay elves. There's a woman with hair all over her body. Then uh you know this is the guy who's going to pull you through. And he's just 100% going, I'm too old for this [ __ ] Yeah. two eyes. My knees have gone. Yeah, my knees have gone and then gone again. Um, so yeah, that's where he came from. And then I suppose then you need some you need some ordinaries to play against the kind of cast of strange magical monsters. And so you have Alex who's the thief who's the kind of center of the mission. And the concept is they have a new priest every time who's kind of nominally inside. It's kind of like the It's like the red shirts of your world. of this book. It is. Yeah, it is. There's a new priest every time and uh it's plain that the the previous priest has has not has not done well out of the arrangement. Yeah, that was so it's I suppose it's the things I wanted to put in there and it's kind of balancing the the different voices within the cast that there's some you know they all feel distinct and they're all bringing something slightly different to the party. That's the idea. Yeah. Well, each of them has like such different personalities. They've got their different quirks, their different magical abilities or or lack thereof. But how do you kind of use that to play into the shift of tone from scene to scene? Um because there are many chapters where you have perspective shifts going throughout all of the different um characters in the group. Um and some of them are more humorous and satirical. Other others are just like outright [ __ ] batshit like like Vega. Um love Vega so much though. and then and then and then others who are more on like a like contemplative more philosophical side. So, how do you kind of go up and balance all that? Well, I suppose you you kind of you're saying it in a way. You kind of you want someone like brother Diaz who's pretty straightforward. Um, relatively normal. He's an outsider who's not used to this madness. And so to him, the whole thing seems crazy and weird. he's coming at it as a as a normal guy. And then you want, you know, some who are intense in one way or another. So, you want a kind of variety of, I suppose, more cultured voices. So, then you have someone like Balthazar who is has very complex, self-important, over-the-top vocabulary he's always trying to use to show how incredibly clever he is. Um, and then you have someone like Viger who uses very simple kind of constructions and also in her case is constantly forgetting, you know, where she is and what's happening and losing the thread. Eat something or [ __ ] it, right? Classic mixup. Basically, classic mix. Yeah. Led by the nose, led by the primal urges. ID. Pure id. She's pure id. Whereas Balthazar is or super ego, I suppose. So all the ego. So, it's kind of mixing and matching the the gender and the and the kind of age and the concerns and the kind of formal voices with the very informal ones and just trying to get a mixture that is interesting. But most of that happens in the writing anyway. I mean, you start out with an idea and then pretty quickly you start trying to put it into practice and seeing how it feels writing from the various points of view. And as you do that, some things work, some things don't. and you start to push the characters further into certain directions and make them more intense. And you know, when something works well, you repeat it and you try it again and you riff on it and that becomes a feature of the character. And when something doesn't work, you cut it out and you gradually they take on a shap
