[1] 25 Anticipated Fantasy & Scifi Books Releasing in 2026 — youtube.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJUA9kf8gLE

So 2025 was a terrific year for new fantasy and sci-fi books. We had some killer releases this year and I have looked ahead and 2026 doesn't look like it's going to be letting up any. So I hope that you've been working through your backlog because the amount of new books coming out next year that look great is concerning. I've cut it down to 25 and it still doesn't cover all the books that I think look great. But I need to cut this video at some point. I'll try and go through these relatively in order for the year. So, we're starting off with 12 months by Jim Butcher, the 18th book in the Dresden Files. Oh, yeah. I didn't realize there were so many of those. There was a little bit of a break between Dresden books. So, this I know loads of fans are really, really excited for this new book. What is there to say about Dresden Files? It is a huge urban fantasy series that is majorly popular and gets a great name. So, we have the 18th book coming out next January. Also coming out in January, we have Tomb of Tombs by myself. This is a nolla in my Shadowbinder series and releasing right at the end of January, January 30th, following a scholar as she delves into this longlost library filled with a lot more than books. It's kind of got a bit of a horror aspect. There's some scholarly politics elements in it, and it takes place between my first two books, Harbinger of Justice and The Black Mantle. However, you don't really need to have read Harbinger of Justice for this to make sense. All of my novelas are kind of supplementary side stories that still just add a lot of background information, especially moving into this third book that will be releasing also in 2026. I don't want to make it the Mi show, but I'm just saying I'm excited for it and it's releasing next year and also the third and final book in the Shadowbinders trilogy. My series is coming out late 2026. doesn't have a cover yet, but yeah, I'm very excited to finally get that out and uh that'll be the trilogy done. Insane. Next up, we have A Day of Breath. This really caught my eye with the cover. The cover is absolutely stunning. And this is releasing in February. This book all revolves around this rift into this other demon world and all these demons pour through and try and kill everybody. So, they have this warrior who kind of protects them from this the other side of this rift. That is until the hero's power starts fading. So, I always loved the kind of otherworld love demons. Looks like there's probably going to be dragons. Kind of looks like there's a dragon up the top. And again, the cover really caught my eye. Next on up, we have Hammerfall by Rob J. Hayes. This is a standalone novel in his God Eater world. So, you don't need to have read his God Eater books. I am a huge fan of Rob's work. I love his War Eternal series. I really want to get into his God Erator series in 2026. So, the fact that there's now this supplementary standalone novel as well, I'm very excited to check it out. I love this idea of these angels being eaten and kind of that giving the magical abilities. I think that's really cool. And it is impressive how much work and lore and information has been put into this world because the original books does have three separate books and three separate series um in different time periods across this world. They all kind of intertwine. It's such an interesting way to set up a series and I'm fascinated by it. Cannot wait to check out the main series but also this new standalone novel as well. So, not only are we getting these three trilogies from [laughter] him, he just casually writes another book also within the world. Rob, what the hell, man? I'm trying to stay on top of the releases here. However, I wouldn't have it any other way. So, very excited for this. Also coming out in February, we have the man, the myth, the legend that is Matt Deniman with a brand new book called Operation Bounce House. Now, this is the author of Dungeon Crawler Carl. However, Operation Bounce House is completely separate. It is not based in the dungeon crawler Carl world and it is a standalone novel and we follow a main character who just kind of wants to farm and live but the galactic empire type part of this world wants to shut down all these farms and all this region. However, the people on Earth don't really want that. So, they have to rebel and fight back. I'm sure it's very funny. I'm sure it's very witty. I'm sure it's very entertaining. I love Matt's work. I will definitely be reading this and putting up a video before the release in February and is most certainly one of my most anticipated reads of next year and the fact it's right at the start of the year is very exciting and I was very kindly sent an arc which was awesome. So, I cannot wait to get round to it and I have high high hopes. Coming out in March, we have Aayicha. I really hope I'm pronouncing that right. This is a historical fantasy perfect for fans of the priaryy of the orange tree and she who became the son. Aayicha, the daughter of a Moroccan freedom fighter, was born for battle. She has witnessed the death of her people, their starvation and torture at the hands of the occupiers, and it has awakened an anger within her. An anger that burns hot, bright, and speaks to Aicha's soul. Who doesn't love an angry protagonist that just wants to tear down an empire? It's always a good time. And again, beautiful cover. Also coming out in March, we have Steel Gods, the sequel to Grave Empire. This is a new trilogy from Richard Swan, who also wrote The Empire of the Wolf, starting with Justice of Kings. I really, really enjoy Justice of Kings. I can't wait to continue on finish those books. But this is a sequel trilogy, and I've heard it really leans into the horror aspects in particular. It is definitely an element in the Empire of the Wolf, but I believe Grave Empire and I assume Steel Gods is a lot more horroresque fantasy, which just sounds really cool. Grave Empire got amazing reviews when it came out. Can't remember if it was this year or last year, but the reviews have been amazing for it. So, I'm very excited to get on to those books and especially with the sequel, Steel Gods, coming out in March. However, I'm also really interested to check out Richard Swann's Infinite State, maybe even more so, which is due to release in August. This is a space opera epic, and it sounds really, really cool. And the early reviews for Infinite State have all been really, really positive. So, I'm very interested to check out Richard Swan's sci-fi stuff as well, starting with Infinite State, which releases in August. And it follows a character called Catherine who recently just inherited a bunch of money which kind of thrusts her into a very complicated situation in this universe that is very rigid and well surveiled but she wants to use that money to really help the people and of course the empire will not want that. Coming out in April we have the book of fallen leaves. This was a missed opportunity to release this book in fall [laughter] autumn time. Fallen leaves and we're releasing it in spring. Come on guys. However, the reviews have been really positive for this one as well. It is obviously Asian influenced following the fates of gods and samurai and Japanese myth. Just sounds really cool and it seems like Orbit's really pushing this one. I've seen it a lot out and about just being shared and talked about already, which has me really excited to check it out as well. And we follow an exile who's trying to restore his name. He's a samurai. It just sounds like a lot of fun. Also releasing in March, we have Daughter of Crows by Mark Lawrence. Now, this is a brand new trilogy from Mark Lawrence, following a young girl who sells herself into this Academy of Kindness, which is this very cutthroat and brutal academy, and then war comes to their door. Mark Lawrence is a legend in the space at this point. I've really enjoyed everything I've read from him so far, so I'm sure this is going to be a really good time. And who doesn't love an academy setup? It's always fun. And can we take a moment just to appreciate that cover. Also coming out in March, we have Wolf Skin, the third book in the Common series. The first being Storm Blood. Now, I've not read these books yet. However, I've heard some really good things about them. The main character used to be what was called a Reaper, a bio enhanced soldier that was fighting against this invading empire, which just alone sounds really cool. And I believe this third book is the final book. So, it's very exciting to see a full trilogy coming out, and it should hopefully prompt me to really hurry up and pick up Storm Blood. Coming out in April, we have A Dance of Burning Blades, the second book in the Invoker trilogy, which has some of the coolest covers in modern day fantasy. I really like the white with the splash of color, but it's still very much illustration based. It's not minimalist like some other white with splash of color covers. A Song of Legends Lost got some really good reviews this year, so the fact that the sequel is coming out is very exciting. Again, I haven't had time to pick up the first book yet, but just sounds awesome. It kind of has this animal companion aspect that really excites me. It sounds like it would be a lot of fun to read. So, it was definitely one I have my eye on. Coming out in May, we have the Republic of Memory, which follows this ship, which holds most of humankind in cryostasis. However, there is a group of people that have to stay awake and look after these people who are in cryostasis, and they've been at it for hundreds of years. Generations of people have died just knowing this ship. and looking after these sleeping humans, which you start to raise questions with. You're like, why why why are we doing this and they're sleeping? I I see issues with this. And when the blackouts start, they set in motion a chain of events that will change life on the Safhina forever. A reckoning is coming. The premise, but also the cover really caught my eye with this one, and a lot of really interesting themes you can lean into with that one. Coming out in May, we have Mans Pearl by R.J. Barker. Martins can commune with the dead and we follow the best among them, a guy called Ir who finds himself dragged into a conspiracy where people he knows gets murdered and he gets framed for that murder. So, it does sound like it would be a sort of murder mystery conspiracy type novel. I'm also getting some found family vibes from the synopsis. It's And if you have been following the channel for any length of time, I quite like murder mysteries, conspiracy mysteries in fantasy. So, this one sounds right up my street. And R.J. Barker has just continually put out well-received work. So, I'm very hopeful that this will be really, really good. However, also releasing in May, we have another one of my most anticipated in the entire year with the last contract of ISO by Fonda Lee. Fondly is the author of the Green Bone Saga, which I'm a huge fan of. And this is a cyberpunk corporate samurai in space. Yes, I sold. I'll take all of them, please. And thank you. I'm very excited for this. [laughter] Fondly is fantastic. I really like what she did with the cast of characters in Green Bone. So, this just sounds awesome. I am so amped for this. This is definitely one of my most anticipated reads for the entire year. And yeah, cover's really cool. But it's it's the premise that gets me with this one. Cyberpunk, corporate samurai in space. Yes. Yes. [laughter] And also in May, May's really packed with great releases. We have Platform Decay, the eighth book in the Murderbot Diaries. Now, again, this is another one. I not mentioned it as much recently cuz it's been a while since I've read one, but I love the Murderbot Diaries. I am a huge fan of that series. It's fantastic. So, I'm very excited for this eighth book. It does seem to be a fulllength book like Network Effect rather than a nolla. It's coming in at 256 pages, which is still shortish, but it's definitely a fulllength novel rather than a novela. And seeing as my favorite book in the series so far was Network Effect, which is the full length novel that we have so far in Murderbot Diaries, I am very excited for Platform Decay. I think it's going to be awesome. Pushing into June, where hopefully we're going to start getting some nicer weather, we have Songs of the Dead by Brandon Sanderson and Peter Aurelian. This is a brand new isseekai type book where we follow this London rocker who is a singer as he falls into this fantasy world. Definitely getting sort of brutal legend type vibes from this. And yeah, it's Brando Sando, but also Peter has a good track record of putting work out that's wellreceived as well. Of course, if it's Brando Sando, it's going to do well. I love urban fantasy. I love rock and metal music. Brandon Sanderson's one of my favorite authors. So, even though he was kind of more of a worldbuilder and also did some editing work on the novel, h I definitely will be checking this one out in June. And also coming out in June, we have A Trade of Blood by Robert Jackson Bennett. The third book in the Anna and Den mystery series. The first two being The Tainted Cup and A Drop of Corruption. I adore these books. They're both five-star reads for me. I think this was might be my favorite read of the year it came out. This one is up there. It's definitely in my top three reads of the year this year. It's such a good book and I really really enjoyed both of them. So, this is another one I'm really really anticipating will be a good time. Again, I love murder mysteries. First two books were five stars. I will be dropping everything when this releases. I don't think it's been officially announced, but it looks like it's probably going to be in June of next year. Now, we're kind of getting to the wishier washier release dates. So, some of these might not be right. Some of them might fall around that timeish. But we have a parade of horribles, the eighth dungeon crawler Carl book. Now, I love this series so damn much. [laughter] These books are some of my favorite of all time. So, needless to say, very, very amped for the eighth book to release. It doesn't have a cover yet, and it does say it might be coming out in March, but I feel like that's really, really quick, especially when Matt has a book coming out in February. So, does a man not sleep? Does he just I have no idea. Dungeon crawler Carl continues to be a great read, a great time, and I will be there no matter when the eighth book drops. It'll definitely be 2026, but uh yeah, maybe March. That would be insane. May, sorry, not March. It's meant to come out in May, which makes way more sense. Yeah. Okay, I can see it coming out in May. That's still an insane turnaround time. I feel like we just got h the inevitable ruin. And also now we have Operation Bounce House coming out in February from Matt and now we're going to get Dungeon Carl or Carl 8: Afraid of Horribles in May. That's wild. The the output from that guy is insane. But I'm very very excited. I think it's going to be awesome. In August, we are getting The Truth by Ryan Cahill. This is the last novela in the Bound in the Broken series, which is wild to think and the penultimate installment likely. There will be one more book after the truth is like the full length novel. Um I'm still own of war and ruin. I've read the first two books and the first two novelas. So I'm still working my way through the series. I'm not completely up to date but I have heard that the truth has a lot of interesting reveals in it that h really adding into the series which will be a lot of fun. And I know this is a huge series especially with it being picked up by Broken Binding Publishing and being republished the first book of Blood and Fire in February. So yeah, it's just a great time to be a bound in the broken fan. There's a lot of really cool stuff going on. Also, it's pretty much confirmed that we will be getting the seventh and final book in the Red Rising saga, Red God, in 2026. Now, there's no set date for this. I do believe it will kind of be summer, late summer is kind of what I've heard. There is so much hype around this series, especially with the recent deluxe edition, but also the fact that we're getting a new edition from Curious King in March of 2026 as well. There's a lot of stuff going on with this series and so much excitement around this final book. Understandably, we're really in the era of massive space opera epics coming to a close with Sunater this year, Red Rising next year. Exciting times. Now, I keep mentioning this book and all of my anticipated releases for the next year, but I'm really hoping we're going to get The Lord of Demons by Evan Winter in 2026. I really want it to come out. I'm really excited for it. I love Rage of Dragons. I loved The Fires of Vengeance. Both were terrific. And I need that third book. So, there's no release date. There's not even really much of a hint that's going to come out in 2026, but I'm hopeful. I think end of 2026 we're going to get Lord of Demons. I'm also really excited for the new Jay Kristoff series that he's currently writing. I think we're getting the first book next year. I did just recently go to a book event with Jay Kristoff for Empire of the Dawn and he talked a wee bit about it and he compared this new series to Englorious Bastards meets Game of Thrones. So that's his words and that just sounds awesome. It sounds really good. Apparently all takes place mostly in this one city. this kind of stuck between these different waring nations and he did say it's going to be quite funny as well. I love Jay Kristoff's work and I'm very very excited to read anything new from him. So I'm hopeful that that first book is coming out in 2026. And just recently we did find out that we are getting a new cosmir book in 2026. Technically two. One is a picture book based on Hoy's stories. That's more of just a coffee table type book. And we're also getting the fires of December, which is a new secret project from Brandon Sanderson. Again, it is Hoy telling the story about this young girl called December, and he did do a reading of it at Dragon Steel Nexus, which you can listen to on his channel. I believe this will be part of a Kickstarter towards the start of the year and so it'll probably come out in around October time I think he said roughly but there will also be a full trade release towards the end of the year at Dragon Steel Nexus in December of 2026. What did I tell you? And this is only the books that have been released as of now. This doesn't include the books that will be released in 2026 that are coming later in 2026. So what an insane start to the year. Let me know down in the comments below what new releases you excited to check out in 2026. And if any of these caught your fancy or if I missed some, which is distinctly possible, please leave them down in the comments below. Thank you very much for watching. Outro.
